geopm::PluginFactory(3) -- abstract factory for plugins
=======================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## NAMESPACES
The `PluginFactory` class template is a member of the `namespace geopm`, but
the full name, `geopm::PluginFactory<class T>`, has been abbreviated in this
manual.  Similarly, the `std::` namespace specifier has been omitted from the
interface definitions for the following standard types: `std::vector`,
`std::string`, `std::set`, and `std::function`, to enable better rendering of
this manual.

## SYNOPSIS

**\#include [<geopm/PluginFactory.hpp>](https://github.com/geopm/geopm/blob/dev/src/PluginFactory.hpp)**

  * `void PluginFactory<T>::register_plugin(`:
    `const string &`_plugin_name_`,` <br>
    `function<unique_ptr<T>()>` _make_plugin_`,` <br>
    `const map<string, string> &`_dictionary_`);`

  * `unique_ptr<T> PluginFactory<T>::make_plugin(`:
    `const std::string &`_plugin_name_`) const;`

  * `vector<string> PluginFactory<T>::plugin_names(`:
    `void) const`;

  * `const map<string, string> PluginFactory<T>::&dictionary(`:
    `const std::string &`_plugin_name_`) const;`

## DESCRIPTION
GEOPM can be extended though `Agent`, `IOGroup`, and `Comm` plugins.
This man page describes the steps for adding a plugin.  Refer to
**geopm::Agent(3)**, **geopm::IOGroup(3)**, and **geopm::Comm(3)** for
more details about these interfaces.  Any C++ class that derives from
one of these plugin base classes and is compiled into a shared object
file can be loaded at application launch time through the GEOPM plugin
interface.  This allows users and system administrators to extend the
features and behavior of the monitor and control process that GEOPM
executes without recompiling the GEOPM runtime.

There are several steps to implementing and integrating a plugin into
GEOPM.  First, the base class interface must be completely implemented
by the new class.  In addition to the virtual methods required by the
interface, there are several recommended static class methods,
described below, that should also be implemented by the derived class
to aid in registration with the plugin factory.  Finally, the plugin
must be registered with the appropriate factory at plugin load time.
This process is discussed in more detail in the following sections.
The factory singletons for `Agent`, `IOGroup`, and `Comm` plugins are
available through their respective single accessor functions:
`geopm::agent_factory()`, `geopm::iogroup_factory()`, and
`geopm::comm_factory()`.

A good starting point for implementing a new `Agent` or `IOGroup`
plugin is to modify the examples found in the (Agent
tutorial)[https://github.com/geopm/geopm/tree/dev/tutorial/agent] and
the (IOGroup
tutorial)[https://github.com/geopm/geopm/tree/dev/tutorial/iogroup].
This code is located in the GEOPM source under tutorial/agent and
tutorial/iogroup.

## TERMS
Below are some definitions of terms that are used to describe
different parts of the GEOPM runtime.  Understanding these terms will
help to interpret the documentation about how to extend the GEOPM
runtime.  These are arranged from from highest levels of abstraction
down to the lowest levels of abstraction.

  * _launcher_:
    Wrapper of system application launch (e.g. srun or aprun) that
    executes the GEOPM runtime with the application.

  * _report_:
    Text file containing summary of aggregated stats collected during
    application run.

  * _trace_:
    Time series of signals collected over application run in a pipe
    separated ASCII table.

  * _agent_:
    Implementation used by GEOPM to interpret sampled data and
    enforce the appropriate controls.

  * _policy_:
    Array of floating-point settings for `Agent`-specific control
    parameters in SI units.

  * _sample_:
    Array of floating-point values providing `Agent`-specific runtime
    statistics in SI units.

  * _endpoint_:
    Interface between resource manager and GEOPM runtime.

  * _profile_:
    Interface for annotating compute application; provides PlatformIO
    region signals.

  * _controller_:
    Thread on each compute node that loads plugins and runs GEOPM
    algorithm.

  * _level_:
    Attribute of an `Agent` describing the number of edges between it
    and the nearest leaf `Agent` in the communication tree (a leaf
    `Agent` is _level_ zero).

  * _signal_:
    Named parameter in SI units that can be measured using PlatformIO.

  * _control_:
    Named parameter in SI units that can be set using PlatformIO.

## FACTORY CLASS METHODS
  * `register_plugin`(): Add a plugin to this factory.  The
    _plugin_name_ parameter will be used to request plugins of the
    registered type.  The _make_plugin_ parameter is a function that
    returns a new object of the registered type.  The _dictionary_ is
    an optional string-to-string dictionary containing static
    information about the registered type.

  * `make_plugin`(): Creates an object of the registered type.  If the type
    was not previously registered, an exception will be thrown.  The
    _plugin_name_ parameter will be used to look up the constructor function
    used to create the object.

  * `plugin_names`(): Returns a list of all valid plugin names that have been
    registered with this factory.

  * `dictionary`(): Returns an optional dictionary of static metadata about
    a registered type.  If the type was not registered, an exception is thrown.
    The _plugin_name_ parameter is used to look up the desired dictionary.

## BUILDING A PLUGIN SHARED OBJECT
A GEOPM plugin is a shared object file that is loaded at runtime by
the _controller_ through the **dlopen(3)** interface.  Each file
provides a new implementation for one of the three extensible classes:
`IOGroup`, `Agent`, and `Comm`.  Each implementation is identified by
a unique name string referred to as the _plugin_name_.  An exception
will be thrown if more than one plugin of the same name and same type
are loaded.  The _plugin_name_ is standardized to be all lower case
letters.  The shared object file names must conform to the pattern:

    libgeopm<CLASS>_<NAME>.so.1.0.0

Here <NAME> is the _plugin_name_ and <CLASS> is one of the three
strings identifying the plugin type: "iogroup", "agent", or "comm".
The current GEOPM ABI version is 1.0.0, and the file name must end
with this string.  Plugins must be marked to have exactly the same ABI
version as the GEOPM library they are intended to be loaded by.  Do
not link the plugin shared object against any of the GEOPM libraries;
this will cause a circular link dependency.  Compile the shared object
with flags appropriate for a dynamically loaded library, e.g. for
`g++` and `icpc` you must provide the `-fPIC` and `-shared` options.

## PLUGIN SEARCH PATH AND LOAD ORDER
The `GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH` is a colon-separated list of directories
that contain plugin shared object files to be loaded by the GEOPM
runtime.  See **geopm(7)** for details about `GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH`.
Note that an Exception will be thrown by the register_plugin
method if an attempt is made to register a plugin with the same name
as a previously registered plugin.

In the case of IOGroup plugins, the most recently loaded plugin to
register a signal or control name provides the implementation at
runtime, even if an earlier IOGroup plugin had provided a signal or
control with the same name.  The plugins in the `GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH`
are loaded in reverse (right to left) order so that plugins earlier in
the search path from left to right are preferred when looking up
signal and control implementations.  The default search path
(`<PREFIX>/lib/geopm`) will have the lowest priority.

For example, if `GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH` is set using the exports below,
the plugins in $HOME/plugin/iogroup will be used with the highest
priority to provide signal and control names, followed by the plugins
in $GEOPM_HOME/tutorial/iogroup.  Plugins in the default path will
only be used if no higher priority implementation is found.

```
    export GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH=$GEOPM_HOME/tutorial/iogroup
    export GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH=$HOME/plugin/iogroup:$GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH
```

## PLUGIN LOAD CONSTRUCTOR FUNCTION
The shared object file must provide a function that is decorated with
the `constructor` compiler directive.  The `constructor` attribute
enables the registration of plugins when the shared object is loaded
by a call to **dlopen(3)**.  See the following link for the `gcc`
documentation for the
[constructor attribute](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc-4.3.0/gcc/Function-Attributes.html).

## PLUGIN CLASS STATIC METHODS
It is recommended that each class deriving from one of the GEOPM
plugin classes implement two static helper methods called
`plugin_name()` and `make_plugin()`.  These functions can be used to
provide the inputs to `PluginFactory::register_plugin()`.  Note that
the first argument to register_plugin() is a string, i.e. the result
of calling plugin_name(), whereas the make_plugin() function itself is
passed as the second argument.  The make_plugin() function should take
no arguments and returns a unique_ptr to an object of the derived
class.  The plugin_name function should take no arguments and return a
string specifying the name of the plugin.  The process for registering
IOGroup and Comm plugins is identical other than the factory singleton
name and is shown in the example below.  In the case of Agent plugins,
additional metadata is passed in the form of a dictionary as the third
argument to register_plugin().  This dictionary is used by `Agent`
class helper methods to look up information about the sample and
policy names required by the Agent.

## EXAMPLE: REGISTER IOGROUP PLUGIN
Please see the (IOGroup
tutorial)[https://github.com/geopm/geopm/tree/dev/tutorial/iogroup] for more
information.  This code is located in the GEOPM source under tutorial/iogroup.

```
    // This example shows how to register an IOGroup plugin
    #include <geopm/IOGroup.hpp> // geopm::IOGroup,
                                 // geopm::iogroup_factory
    #include <geopm/Helper.hpp>  // geopm::make_unique

    // Header providing class ExampleIOGroup interface
    #include "ExampleIOGroup.hpp"

    // Called during dlopen() to register plugin
    static void __attribute__((constructor))
    register_plugin_example_iogroup(void)
    {
        geopm::PluginFactory<geopm::IOGroup> &iof =
            geopm::iogroup_factory();
        iof.register_plugin(ExampleIOGroup::plugin_name(),
                            ExampleIOGroup::make_plugin);
    }

    // Static method used by the factory to create objects
    std::unique_ptr<IOGroup> ExampleIOGroup::make_plugin(void)
    {
        return geopm::make_unique<ExampleIOGroup>();
    }

    // Static method providing unique plugin name
    std::string ExampleIOGroup::plugin_name(void)
    {
        return "example";
    }
```


## EXAMPLE: REGISTER AGENT PLUGIN
Please see the (Agent
tutorial)[https://github.com/geopm/geopm/tree/dev/tutorial/agent] for more
information.  This code is located in the GEOPM source under tutorial/agent.

```
    // This example shows how to register an Agent plugin
    #include <geopm/Agent.hpp>  // geopm::Agent,
                                // geopm::agent_factory
    #include <geopm/Helper.hpp> // geopm::make_unique

    // Header providing class ExampleAgent interface
    #include "ExampleAgent.hpp"

    // Called during dlopen() to register plugin
    static void __attribute__((constructor))
    register_plugin_example_agent(void)
    {
        geopm::PluginFactory<geopm::Agent> &af =
            geopm::agent_factory();
        af.register_plugin(ExampleAgent::plugin_name(),
                           ExampleAgent::make_plugin,
                           geopm::Agent::make_dictionary(
                               ExampleAgent::policy_names(),
                               ExampleAgent::sample_names()));
    }

    // Static method used by the factory to create objects
    std::unique_ptr<geopm::Agent> ExampleAgent::make_plugin(void)
    {
        return geopm::make_unique<ExampleAgent>();
    }

    // Static method providing unique plugin name
    std::string ExampleAgent::plugin_name(void)
    {
        return "example";
    }
```


## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm::Agent(3)**,
**geopm::Comm(3)**,
**geopm::IOGroup(3)**,
**dlopen(3)**
