geopm_agent_monitor(7) -- agent implementation for aggregating statistics
=========================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## DESCRIPTION
An implementation of the Agent interface that enforces no policies and
is intended for application tracing and profiling only.  It collects
statistics from each node and aggregates them over the whole
application run.

## AGENT BEHAVIOR HIGHLIGHTS

Policies and samples are the control parameters and sampled values
measured by the Agent.  See **geopm::Agent(3)** for more explanation
of how these policies and samples are communicated between agents
and with the resource manager.  The Agent interface also provides
methods for the Agent to extend reports and traces with additional
Agent-specific information.

* `Agent Name`:
  Set the `--geopm-agent` launch option or `GEOPM_AGENT` environment
  variable to "monitor" and the Controller will select the
  MonitorAgent for its control handler.  See **geopmlaunch(1)** and
  **geopm(7)** for more information about launch options and
  environment variables.

* `Ordered Policies Descending`:
  N/A

* `Ordered Samples Ascending`:

  `POWER_PACKAGE`: Total power of the package(s) across all compute
                   nodes.

  `FREQUENCY`: The average CPU frequency across all compute nodes.

* `Tracing Modifications`:
  N/A

* `Report Modifications`:
  N/A

* `Control Loop Gate`:
  The Monitor agent gates the Controller's control loop to a cadence
  of 5ms.  This agent propagates its ascending signals up the tree
  every 50ms.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_governor(7)**,
**geopm::Agent(3)**,
**geopm_agent_c(3)**,
**geopm_endpoint_c(3)**,
**geopmagent(1)**,
**geopmendpoint(1)**,
**geopmlaunch(1)**
