geopm_error(3) -- geopm error handling
======================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS

**\#include [<geopm_error.h>](https://github.com/geopm/geopm/blob/dev/src/)**

`Link with -lgeopm (MPI) or -lgeopmpolicy (non-MPI)`

  * `void geopm_error_message(`:
    `int` _err_, <br>
    `char *`_msg_, <br>
    `size_t` _size_);

## DESCRIPTION
All **geopm(7)** C APIs which can have an error condition occur during
runtime return an error number.  This is the way **geopm(7)** handles
errors, and almost all of the interfaces behave this way.  This man page
describes how to interpret these returned error codes.  A returned error
number of zero by a geopm API indicates success.  If the error number returned
by a geopm API is positive then this indicates a generic system error, and if
the error number is negative this indicates a **geopm(7)** specific error has
occurred.  Any non-zero error number can be converted into a descriptive string
with the **geopm_error_message()** function.  The GEOPM specific error numbers
are enumerated in the _geopm_error.h_ header file and they are described below.
The system error numbers are documented in the **errno(3)** man page.

## ERRORS NUMBERS

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_RUNTIME = -1`:
    Runtime error

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_LOGIC = -2`:
    Logic error

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_INVALID = -3`:
    Invalid argument

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_POLICY_NULL = -4`:
    The geopm_policy_c pointer is NULL, use geopm_policy_create()

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_FILE_PARSE = -5`:
    Unable to parse input file

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_LEVEL_RANGE = -6`:
    Control hierarchy level is out of range

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_CTL_COMM = -7`:
    Communication error in control hierarchy

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_SAMPLE_INCOMPLETE = -8`:
    All children have not sent all samples

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_POLICY_UNKNOWN = -9`:
    No policy has been set

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED = -10`:
    Feature not yet implemented

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_NOT_TESTED = -11`:
    Feature not yet tested

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_PLATFORM_UNSUPPORTED = -12`:
    Current platform not supported or unrecognized

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_MSR_OPEN = -13`:
    Could not open MSR device

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_MSR_READ = -14`:
    Could not read from MSR device

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_MSR_WRITE = -15`:
    Could not write to MSR device

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_OPENMP_UNSUPPORTED = -16`:
    Not compiled with support for OpenMP

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_PROF_NULL = -17`:
    The geopm_prof_c pointer is NULL, use geopm_prof_create()

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_DECIDER_UNSUPPORTED = -18`:
    Specified Decider not supported or unrecognized

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_FACTORY_NULL = -19`:
    The geopm_factory_c pointer is NULL, pass in a valid factory object

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_SHUTDOWN = -20`:
    Shutdown policy has been signaled

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_TOO_MANY_COLLISIONS = -21`:
    Too many collisions when inserting into hash table

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_AFFINITY = -22`:
    MPI ranks are not affitinized to distinct CPUs

  * `GEOPM_ERROR_ENVIRONMENT = -23`:
    Unset or invalid environment variable

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016, 2017, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_ctl_c(3)**,
**geopm_fortran(3)**,
**geopm_omp(3)**,
**geopm_policy_c(3)**,
**geopm_prof_c(3)**,
**geopm_version(3)**,
**geopm_launcher(1)**,
**geopmsrun(1)**,
**geopmaprun(1)**,
**geopmplotter(1)**,
**geopmctl(1)**,
**geopmpolicy(1)**
**errno(3)**
