geopmagent(1) -- query agent information and create static policies
===================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS

`geopmagent` [`-a` _AGENT_] [`-p` _POLICY0_,_POLICY1_,...]

## DESCRIPTION

Used to get information about GEOPM agents on a system and create
static policies for those agents.  When no options are provided,
`geopmagent` will display the names of all available agents.  When the
agent is specified with option `-a` but `-p` is not given,
`geopmagent` will print names of the agent's policies and samples.  If
both `-a` and `-p` are provided then `geopmagent` will print to
standard output a JSON formatted policy string corresponding to the
policy values specified by the `-p` option.  The argument to `-p` is a
comma-separated list of policy parameters.  To determine the parameter
names and ordering appropriate for the `-p` option, run `geopmagent`
with only the `-a` option and inspect the output line beginning with
the string "Policy:".  The JSON formatted string can be piped to a
file to be used as the `GEOPM_POLICY` as described in **geopm(7)** to
provide a static input policy for the GEOPM controller.  If `-p` is
given but `-a` is not, an error is reported.

## OPTIONS
  * `--help`:
    Print brief summary of the command line usage information,
    then exit.

  * `--version`:
    Print version of **geopm(7)** to standard output, then exit.

  * `-a` _AGENT_:
    Specify the name of the agent.

  * `-p` _POLICY0_,_POLICY1_,...:
    The values to be set for each policy in a comma-separated list.
    If the agent does not require any policy values this option must
    be specified as "None" or "none".

## EXAMPLES
List all available agents on the system:

    $ geopmagent
    energy_efficient
    monitor
    power_balancer
    power_governor

Get power_balancing agent policy and sample names:

    $ geopmagent -a power_balancer
    Policy: POWER
    Sample: POWER,IS_CONVERGED,EPOCH_RUNTIME

Create policy for power_governor agent with 250 Watts per node power
budget:

    $ geopmagent -a power_governor -p 250
    {"POWER" : 250}

Create policy for power_balancer agent with 250 Watts per node power
budget:

    $ geopmagent -a power_balancer -p 250,0,0,0
    {"POWER_CAP" : 250, "STEP_COUNT" : 0, "MAX_EPOCH_RUNTIME" : 0, "POWER_SLACK" : 0}

Create policy for energy_efficient agent with minimum frequency of 1.2
GHz and maximum frequency of 2.4 GHz:

    $ geopmagent -a energy_efficient -p 1.2e9,2.4e9
    {"FREQ_MIN" : 1.2e+09, "FREQ_MAX" : 2.4e+09}

Create policy for monitor agent which does not require any policies.
Note that GEOPM uses the monitor agent by default, in which case
specifying `--geopm-agent` and `--geopm-policy` are optional.

    $ geopmagent -a monitor -p None
    {}


## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7)**,
**geopm_agent_monitor(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_governor(7)**,
**geopm_agent_c(3)**,
**geopm_endpoint_c(3)**,
**geopmendpoint(1)**
