geopmwrite(1) -- modify platform state
======================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS

PRINT ALL CONTROL NAMES <br>
`geopmwrite`

PRINT DOMAIN NAME AND SIZE <br>
`geopmwrite` --domain [CONTROL_NAME]

WRITE CONTROL <br>
`geopmwrite` CONTROL_NAME DOMAIN_TYPE DOMAIN_INDEX VALUE

GET HELP OR VERSION <br>
`geopmwrite` --help | --version

## DESCRIPTION

Provides a command line interface to PlatformIO and PlatformTopo.
This tool can be used to write hardware/OS state through
high-level control aliases and query other information
about the platform such as the type and number of hardware domains.
Details of the hardware domains can also be inferred from the output
of **lscpu(1)**.

When run without any arguments, the default behavior is to print a
summary of available controls.

To write a specific control, `geopmwrite` should be run with four
arguments.  CONTROL_NAME is the name of the control of interest.
DOMAIN_TYPE is hardware domain to which the control should be applied.
DOMAIN_INDEX is used to indicate which instance of the domain to write
to; indexing starts from 0 and goes up to the domain size - 1.  VALUE
is the floating-point number in SI units that the control will be
adjusted to.  Note that currently controls are only defined for their
native domain.

## OPTIONS

  * `-d`, `--domain`:
    Print domain of a control if CONTROL_NAME is provided, or print a
    list of all domains on the system.

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Print brief summary of the command line usage information,
    then exit.

  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Print version of **geopm(7)** to standard output, then exit.

## EXAMPLES

List domains and size:

    $ geopmwrite --domain
    board                1
    package              2
    core                 64
    cpu                  128
    board_memory         2
    package_memory       1
    board_nic            1
    package_nic          0
    board_accelerator    0
    package_accelerator  0

List all available controls on the system with domain type and number:

    $ geopmwrite
    FREQUENCY
    POWER_PACKAGE_LIMIT

Show the description for a control:

    $ geopmwrite --info FREQUENCY
    FREQUENCY: Set processor frequency

Show domain type for POWER_PACKAGE control:

    $ geopmwrite --domain POWER_PACKAGE
    package

Set the frequency of CPU 2 to 1.9 GHz:

    $ geopmwrite FREQUENCY cpu 2 1.9e9
    $ geopmread FREQUENCY cpu 2
    1.9e9

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopmread(1)**,
**lscpu(1)**
