geopm::PlatformIO(3) -- geopm platform interface
================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## NAMESPACES

The `IPlatformIO` class, the `IOGroup` class, and the `platform_io()`
singleton accessor function are members of the `namespace geopm`, but
the full names, `geopm::IPlatformIO`, `geopm::IOGroup` and
`geopm::platform_io()`, have been abbreviated in this manual.
Similarly, the `std::` namespace specifier has been omitted from the
interface definitions for the following standard types:
`std::shared_ptr`, `std::set`, `std::string`, `std::function`,
`std::vector`, to enable better rendering of this manual.

Note that the `IPlatformIO` class is an abstract base class that the
user interacts with.  The concrete implementation, `PlatformIO`, is
hidden by the singleton accessor.

## SYNOPSIS

**\#include [<geopm/PlatformIO.hpp>](https://github.com/geopm/geopm/blob/dev/src/PlatformIO.hpp)**

`Link with -lgeopm`

  * `IPlatformIO &platform_io(`:
    `void);`

  * `virtual set<string> IPlatformIO::signal_names(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual set<string> IPlatformIO::control_names(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual string IPlatformIO::signal_description(`:
    `const string &`_signal_name_`) const = 0;`

  * `virtual string IPlatformIO::control_description(`:
    `const string &`_control_name_`) const = 0;`

  * `virtual int IPlatformIO::signal_domain_type(`:
    `const string &`_signal_name_`) const = 0;`

  * `virtual int IPlatformIO::control_domain_type(`:
    `const string &`_control_name_`) const = 0;`

  * `virtual double IPlatformIO::read_signal(`:
    `const string &`_signal_name_`,` <br>
    `int` _domain_type_`,` <br>
    `int` _domain_idx_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual void IPlatformIO::write_control(`:
    `const string &`_control_name_`,` <br>
    `int` _domain_type_`,` <br>
    `int` _domain_idx_`,` <br>
    `double` _setting_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual void IPlatformIO::save_control(`:
    `void) = 0;`

  * `virtual void IPlatformIO::restore_control(`:
    `void) = 0;`

  * `virtual int IPlatformIO::push_signal(`:
    `const string &`_signal_name_`,` <br>
    `int` _domain_type_`,`
    `int` _domain_idx_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual int IPlatformIO::push_control(`:
    `const string &`_control_name_`,` <br>
    `int` _domain_type_`,` <br>
    `int` _domain_idx_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual int IPlatformIO::num_signal(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual int IPlatformIO::num_control(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual double IPlatformIO::sample(`:
    `int` _signal_idx_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual void IPlatformIO::adjust(`:
    `int` _control_idx_`,`
    `double` _setting_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual void IPlatformIO::read_batch(`:
    `void) = 0;`

  * `virtual void IPlatformIO::write_batch(`:
    `void) = 0;`

  * `virtual function<double(const vector<double> &)> IPlatformIO::agg_function(`:
    `const string &`_signal_name_`) const = 0;`

  * `virtual void IPlatformIO::register_iogroup(`:
    `shared_ptr<IOGroup>` _iogroup_`) = 0;`

  * `struct IPlatformIO::m_request_s {`:
    `string` _name_`;` <br>
    `int` _domain_type_`;` <br>
    `int` _domain_idx_`;` <br>
    `};`

## DESCRIPTION
The `PlatformIO` class provides a high-level interface for signals and
controls.  There are a large number of built-in signals and controls.
Theses built-in signals and controls include a wide range of hardware
metrics, hardware settings, and signals derived from application
behavior.  Application behavior is tracked by GEOPM's integration with
MPI and OpenMP and also by application use of the **geopm_prof_c(3)**
mark-up interface. In addition to the built-in features, `PlatformIO`
can be extended through the **geopm::IOGroup(3)** plugin interface to
provide arbitrary signals and controls.

A domain is a discrete component within a compute node where a signal
or control is applicable.  For more information see
**geopm::PlatformTopo(3)**.  A signal represents any measurement in SI
units that can be sampled or any unit-free integer that can be read.
A control represents a request for a hardware domain to operate such
that a related signal measured from the hardware domain will track the
request.  For example, the user can set a `POWER_PACKAGE_LIMIT` in
units of watts and the related signal, `POWER_PACKAGE`, will remain
below the limit.  Similarly the user can set a CPU `FREQUENCY` in
hertz and the related signal, `FREQUENCY` will show the CPU operating
at the value set.

## ALIASING SIGNALS AND CONTROLS
There are two classes of signals and control names: "low level" and
"high level".  All `IOGroup`'s are expected to provide low level
signals and controls with names that are prefixed with the IOGroup
name and two colons, e.g. the `MSRIOGroup` provides the
`MSR::PKG_ENERGY_STATUS:ENERGY` signal.  If the signal or control may
be supported on more than one platform, the implementation should be
aliased to a high level name.  This high level name enables the signal
or control to be supported by more than one `IOGroup`, and different
platforms will support the loading different sets of `IOGroups`.  The
`MSRIOGroup` aliases the above signal to the high level
`PACKAGE_ENERGY` signal which can be used on any platform to measure
the current package energy value.  Agents are encouraged to request
high level signals and controls to make the implementation more
portable.  The high level signals and controls supported by built-in
`IOGroup` classes are listed below.  See **geopm::PluginFactory(7)**
secton on `SEARCH AND LOAD ORDER` for information about how the
`GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH` environment variable is used to select which
`IOGroup` implementation is used in the case where more than one
provides the same high level signal or control.

  * `TIME`:
    Time elapsed since the beginning of execution.

  * `EPOCH_COUNT`:
    Number of completed executions of an epoch.  Prior to the first call
    by the applicaiton to `geopm_prof_epoch()` the signal returns as -1.
    With each call to `geopm_prof_epoch()` the count increases by one.

  * `REGION_ID#`:
    64-bit integer region ID that all ranks are running, including MPI
    flag (bit 62) if applicable.  A nested MPI region for the region
    ID 0x0000000012345678 will appear as 0x4000000012345678.  If all
    ranks are not in the same region, it will be recorded as unmarked
    (0x2000000000000000).  Epoch boundaries are recorded as entry and
    exit to the epoch region (0x8000000000000000).

  * `REGION_ID`:
    NOT YET SUPPORTED.  The lower 32 bit hash of the region id name
    without hint or hidden bit set.

  * `REGION_HINT`:
    NOT YET SUPPORTED.  The region hint (see **geopm_prof_c(3)**)
    associated with the currently running region.  For any interval
    when all ranks are within an MPI function inside of a user defined
    region, the hint will change from the hint associated with the
    user defined region to GEOPM_REGION_HINT_NETWORK.

  * `REGION_PROGRESS`:
    Minimum per-rank reported progress through the current region.

  * `REGION_RUNTIME`:
    Maximum per-rank of the last recorded runtime for the current
    region.

  * `ENERGY_PACKAGE`:
    Total energy aggregated over the processor package.

  * `POWER_PACKAGE`:
    Total power aggregated over the processor package.

  * `FREQUENCY`:
    Average CPU frequency over the specified domain.

  * `ENERGY_DRAM`:
    Total energy aggregated over the DRAM DIMMs associated with a NUMA
    node.

  * `POWER_DRAM`:
    Total power aggregated over the DRAM DIMMs associated with a NUMA
    node.

  * `POWER_PACKAGE_MIN`:
    Minimum setting for package power.

  * `POWER_PACKAGE_MAX`:
    Maximum setting for package power.

  * `CYCLES_THREAD`:
    Average over the domain of clock cycles executed by cores since
    the beginning of execution.

  * `CYCLES_REFERENCE`:
    Average over the domain of clock reference cycles since the
    beginning of execution.


## SINGLETON ACCESSOR

  * `platform_io`():
    There is only one `PlatformIO` object, and the only way to access
    this object is through this function.  The function returns a
    reference to the single `PlatformIO` object that gives access to
    all of the CLASS METHODS described below.  See `EXAMPLE` section
    below.

## INSPECTION CLASS METHODS

  * `signal_names()`:
    Returns the names of all available signals that can be requested.
    This includes all signals and aliases provided through `IOGroup`
    extensions as well as signals provided by PlatformIO itself.  The
    set of strings that are returned can be passed as a _signal_name_
    to all `PlatformIO` methods that accept a signal name input
    parameter.

  * `control_names()`:
    Returns the names of all available controls.  This includes all
    controls and aliases provided by IOGroups as well as controls
    provided by PlatformIO itself.  The set of strings that are returned
    can be passed as a _control_name_ to all `PlatformIO` methods that
    accept a control name input parameter.

  * `signal_description()`:
    Returns the description of the signal as defined by the IOGroup that
    provides this signal.

  * `control_description()`:
    Returns the description of the control as defined by the IOGroup that
    provides this control.

  * `signal_domain_type()`:
    Query the domain for the signal with name _signal_name_.  Returns
    one of the `geopm::PlatformTopo::m_domain_e` values signifying the
    granularity at which the signal is measured.  Will return
    `geopm::PlatformTopo::M_DOMAIN_INVALID` if the signal name is not
    supported.

  * `control_domain_type()`:
    Query the domain for the control with the name _control_name_.
    Returns one of the `geopm::PlatformTopo::m_domain_e` values
    signifying the granularity at which the control can be adjusted.
    Will return `geopm::PlatformTopo::M_DOMAIN_INVALID` if the control
    name is not supported.

  * `agg_function()`:


## SERIAL CLASS METHODS

  * `read_signal()`:

  * `write_control()`:

  * `save_control()`:

  * `restore_control()`:

## BATCH CLASS METHODS

  * `push_signal()`:
    Push a signal onto the stack of batch access signals.  The signal
    is defined by selecting a _signal_name_ from the set returned by
    the `signal_names()` method, the _domain_type_ from one of the
    `PlatformTopo::m_domain_e` values, and the _domain_idx_ between
    zero to the value returned by
    `PlatformTopo::num_domain(_domain_type_)`.  Subsequent calls to
    the `read_batch()` method will read the signal and update the
    internal state used to store batch signals.  The return value of
    the method can be passed to the `sample_signal()` method to access
    the signal stored in the internal state from the last update.  The
    returned signal index will be repeated for each unique tuple of
    push_signal input parameters.  All signals must be pushed onto the
    stack prior to the first call to `adjust()` or `read_batch()`.  Attempts to push
    a signal onto the stack after the first call to `adjust()` or `read_batch()` or
    attempts to push a _signal_name_ that is not from the set
    returned by `signal_names()` will result in a thrown
    `geopm::Exception` with error number `GEOPM_ERROR_INVALID`.

  * `push_control()`:
    Push a control onto the stack of batch access controls.  The control
    is defined by selecting a _control_name_ from the set returned by
    the `control_names()` method, the _domain_type_ from one of the
    `PlatformTopo::m_domain_e` values, and the _domain_idx_ between
    zero to the value returned by
    `PlatformTopo::num_domain(_domain_type_)`.  The return value of
    the method can be passed to the `adjust()` method which will update the
    internal state used to store batch controls.  Subsequent calls to
    the `write_batch()` method access the control values in the internal
    state and write the values to the hardware.  The
    returned control index will be repeated for each unique tuple of
    push_control input parameters.  All controls must be pushed onto the
    stack prior to the first call to `adjust()` or `read_batch()`.  Attempts to push
    a controls onto the stack after the first call to `adjust()` or `read_batch()` or
    attempts to push a _control_name_ that is not from the set
    returned by `control_names()` will result in a thrown
    `geopm::Exception` with error number `GEOPM_ERROR_INVALID`.

  * `num_signal()`:
    Returns the number of `push_signal()` with unique tuple of input.

  * `num_control()`:
    Returns the number of `push_control()` with unique tuple of input.

  * `sample()`:
    Samples cached value of a single signal that has been pushed via
    `push_signal()` cached value is upated at the time of call to
    `read_batch()`.

  * `adjust()`:
    Updates cached value for single control that has been pushed via
    `push_control()` cached value will be written to the platform at time of
    call to `write_batch()`.

  * `read_batch()`:
    Read all push signals from the platform so that the next call to `sample()`
    will reflect the updated data.

  * `write_batch()`:
    Write all pushed controls so that values provided to `adjust()`
    are written to the platform.

## PLUGIN CLASS METHODS

  * `register_iogroup()`:
    Registers an `IOGroup` with the `PlatformIO` so that the signals
    and controls provided by the object are available through the
    `PlatformIO` interface.  The _iogroup_ is a shared pointer to a
    class derived from the **geopm::IOGroup(3)**.  This method
    provides the mechanism for extending the `PlatformIO` interface at
    runtime.

## TYPES

  * `m_request_s`:

## EXAMPLE

    /* Print a signal for all CPUs on the system. */

    #include <iostream>
    #include <string>
    #include <geopm/PlatformIO.hpp>
    #include <geopm/PlatformTopo.hpp>

    int main(int argc, char **argv)
    {
        if (argc != 2) {
            std::cerr << "Usage: " << argv[0] << " SIGNAL_NAME" << std::endl;
            return -1;
        }
        std::string signal_name = argv[1];
        geopm::IPlatformIO &pio = geopm::platform_io();
        geopm::IPlatformTopo &topo = geopm::platform_topo();
        const int DOMAIN = pio.signal_domain_type(signal_name);
        const int NUM_DOMAIN = topo.num_domain(DOMAIN);
        std::cout << "cpu_idx    " << signal_name << std::endl;
        for (int domain_idx = 0; domain_idx != NUM_DOMAIN; ++domain_idx) {
            double signal = pio.read_signal(signal_name, DOMAIN, domain_idx);
            for (const auto &cpu_idx : topo.domain_cpus(DOMAIN, domain_idx)) {
                std::cout << cpu_idx << "    " << signal << std::endl;
            }
        }
        return 0;
    }


## ERRORS
All functions described on this man page throw **geopm::Exception(3)**
on error.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**
