geopm_agent_frequency_map(7) -- agent for running regions at user selected frequencies
======================================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## DESCRIPTION
This Agent is used to map predetermined optimal frequencies to named
regions.  The best frequencies for each region are specified in the
environment variable `GEOPM_FREQUENCY_MAP`, which is a JSON-formatted
string mapping region name to frequency in Hertz, e.g. '{"region1":
1.2e9, "region2": 1.5e9}'.  If a frequency for a region is not
specified, the region hint will be used and the frequency will be set
to either the minimum or maximum available frequency.  See
**geopm_prof_c(3)** for the list of region hints.  These best-fit
frequencies can be determined by running the application once at each
available frequency and checking the performance of each region.

## AGENT BEHAVIOR HIGHLIGHTS
Policies and samples are vectors of double precision values where each
value has a meaning defined by the **geopm::Agent(3)** implementation.
The Agent interface also provides methods for the Agent to extend
reports and traces with additional Agent-specific information.

* `Agent Name`:
  Set the `--geopm-agent` launch option or `GEOPM_AGENT` environment
  variable to "frequency_map" and the Controller will select the
  FrequencyMapAgent for its control handler.  See **geopmlaunch(1)** and
  **geopm(7)** for more information about launch options and
  environment variables.

* `Agent Policy Definitions`:
  The minimum and maximum frequency are passed down as policies.
  Setting both to the same value can be used to force the entire
  application to run at one frequency.

  `FREQ_MIN`: The minimum frequency that the algorithm is allowed to
              choose for any region.  If NAN is passed, it will use
              the minimum available frequency by default.

  `FREQ_MAX`: The maximum frequency that the algorithm is allowed to
              choose for any region.  If NAN is passed, it will use
              the maximum available frequency by default.

  The rest of the policy consists of the map of per-region frequencies,
  in pairs of region hash and region frequency. For example, to set a policy
  with FREQ_MIN = 1 GHz, FREQ_MAX = 3 GHz, a mapped frequency of 2 GHz to
  region hash 0x1234abcd, and 2.5 GHz to 0x2468cdef, the following policy could
  be set: 1e9, 3e9, 0x1234abcd, 2e9, 0x2468cdef, 2.5e9

  To encode as a json string, include a series of HASH_{index}, FREQ_{index}
  pairs in the policy. For example, the above policy would look like:
  { FREQ_MIN: 1e9, FREQ_MAX: 3e9, HASH_0: 0x1234abcd, FREQ_0: 2e9,
    HASH_1: 0x2468cdef, FREQ_1: 2.5e9 }

  The index values can be in the range of 0 to 30, inclusive. The order of
  index values does not matter, and gaps in index values are permitted. Multiple
  definitions of an index are not permitted.

  If the GEOPM_FREQUENCY_MAP environment variable specifies a frequency map,
  the policy only consists of FREQ_MIN and FREQ_MAX. GEOPM_FREQUENCY_MAP is
  deprecated and will no longer be used in a future release.


* `Agent Sample Definitions`:
  N/A

* `Trace Column Extensions`:
  N/A

* `Report Extensions`:
  The assigned frequency for each region is added to the report.

* `Control Loop Gate`:
  The agent gates the Controller's control loop to a cadence
  of 5ms.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_governor(7)**,
**geopm::Agent(3)**,
**geopm_agent_c(3)**,
**geopmagent(1)**,
**geopmlaunch(1)**
