geopm::Agent(3) -- geopm agent plugin interface
===============================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## NAMESPACES
The `Agent` class and the `agent_factory()` function are members of
the `namespace geopm`, but the full names, `geopm::Agent` and
`geopm::agent_factory()`, have been abbreviated in this manual.
Similarly, the `std::` namespace specifier has been omitted from the
interface definitions for the following standard types: `std::vector`,
`std::pair`, `std::string`, `std::map`, and `std::function`, to enable
better rendering of this manual.

## SYNOPSIS

**\#include [<geopm/Agent.hpp>](https://github.com/geopm/geopm/blob/dev/src/Agent.hpp)**

`Link with -lgeopm`

  * `PluginFactory<Agent> &agent_factory(`:
    `void);`

  * `virtual void Agent::init(`:
    `int` _level_`,` <br>
    `const vector<int> &`_fan_in_`,` <br>
    `bool` _is_level_root_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual void Agent::validate_policy(`:
    `vector<double> &`_in_policy_``) = const 0;`

  * `virtual bool Agent::descend(`:
    `const vector<double> &`_in_policy_`,` <br>
    `vector<vector<double>>&` _out_policy_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual bool Agent::ascend(`:
    `const vector<vector<double>> &`_in_sample_`,` <br>
    `vector<double> &`_out_sample_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual bool Agent::adjust_platform(`:
    `const vector<double> &`_policy_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual bool Agent::sample_platform(`:
    `vector<double> &`_sample_`) = 0;`

  * `virtual void Agent::wait(`:
     `void) = 0;`

  * `virtual vector<pair<string, string>> Agent::report_header(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual vector<pair<string, string>> Agent::report_node(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual map<uint64_t, vector<pair<string, string>>> Agent::report_region(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual vector<string> Agent::trace_names(`:
    `void) const = 0;`

  * `virtual void Agent::trace_values(`:
    `vector<double> &`_values_`) = 0;`

  * `static int Agent::num_policy(`:
    `const map<string, string> &`_dictionary_`);`

  * `static int Agent::num_sample(`:
    `const map<string, string> &`_dictionary_`);`

  * `static vector<string> Agent::policy_names(`:
    `const map<string, string> &`_dictionary_`);`

  * `static vector<string> Agent::sample_names(`:
    `const map<string, string> &`_dictionary_`);`

  * `static map<string, string> Agent::make_dictionary(`:
    `const vector<string> &`_policy_names_`,` <br>
    `const vector<string> &`_sample_names_`);`

  * `static void Agent::aggregate_sample(`:
    `const vector<vector<double>> &`_in_sample_`,` <br>
    `const vector<function<double(const vector<double>&)>> &`_agg_func_`,` <br>
    `vector<double> &`_out_sample_`);`

## DESCRIPTION
The `Agent` class is an abstract pure virtual class that defines the
fundamental procedures executed by the GEOPM runtime.  In general, the
Agent is responsible for making decisions about how and what control the
runtime should exert based on readings of system values.  By default
the **geopm::MonitorAgent(3)** is used, but other agents can be
selected with the `--geopm-agent` command line option to the
**geopm_launcher(1)** or `GEOPM_AGENT` environment variable.  Exactly
one agent type is used during each execution of the GEOPM runtime.

The **geopm::PluginFactory(3)** man page gives a general overview of
concepts related to extending GEOPM through plugins.  Please refer to
that overview as an introduction before implementing an `Agent` plugin.

A single process (or application thread) on each compute node utilized
by an application running with GEOPM creates a `Controller` object and
each of these objects creates one or more `Agent` objects.  The
`Agent` objects are related to each other through a balanced tree of
bi-directional communication.  The "leaf" `Agent` objects are defined
to have no children and one parent.  The "tree" `Agent` objects defined
to have many children and one Agent as its parent.  The "root" Agent
objects are defined to have many children and one endpoint as its parent.
Note that in some cases (e.g. a single node job execution) a "tree" Agent
may not be involved at all.  The `Agent::init`() method is called by the
`Controller` prior to all other `Agent` methods.  The parameters passed
by the `Controller` in this call define the geometry of the `Agent` tree
and where the particular `Agent` object falls in the tree.  See detailed
description of `Agent::init`() below for more information about the tree
structure.

All `Controller`s create an `Agent` object to execute _level_ 0, or
"leaf" responsibilities.  The leaf responsibilities include monitoring
signals and deriving samples to send to their parent `Agent`'s at
_level_ 1 in the tree.  Additionally a leaf `Agent` must interpret
policies received from their parent agent at _level_ 1 and set
controls which reflect the policy.  Some of the `Controller` objects
will create `Agent` objects to execute non-zero _level_, or "tree"
responsibilities.  These non-zero _level_ `Agent` objects are
responsible for aggregating samples from child agents to send to
parent agents and splitting policy values from parent agents to send
to child agents.  Note that the `Agent` running at the root of the
tree uses the same policy/sample interface to interact with the
resource manager.  The resource manager implements the role of a
parent `Agent` to the root `Agent` by making calls to the
**geopm_endpoint_c(3)** interface.

The `Agent` class is designed to read signals and write controls for
the hardware and application using the **geopm::PlatformIO(3)**
interface.  Please see the manual for details about how the
`PlatformIO` abstraction enables access to hardware capabilities,
extension of `Agent` algorithms to new hardware architectures, a
mapping of application behavior to hardware domains, and code reuse of
I/O implementations by different `Agent` classes.

## FACTORY ACCESSOR
  * `agent_factory`():
    This method returns the singleton accessor for the Agent factory.
    Calling this method will create the factory if it does not already exist.
    If this method is creating the factory, loading of the built-in Agents
    will be attempted.  For more information see **geopm::PluginFactory(3)**.

## CLASS METHODS

  * `init`():
    The `init`() method is the first method that will be called and
    provides contextual information for the `Agent` about the
    communication tree geometry and where in the tree the `Agent`
    resides.  The communication tree that connects the `Agent` objects
    is a balanced tree.  The _level_ is the minimum number of edges
    between `self` and any leaf `Agent`.  Only when _level_ is zero
    will the `sample_platform`() and `adjust_platform`() methods be
    called.  If the _level_ is zero then the `init`() method should
    push all signals and controls for **PlatformIO(3)**.  The _fan_in_
    is a vector indexed by _level_ that describes the number of
    siblings that an `Agent` at _level_ has which share a parent.  The
    figure below represents a tree with _fan_in_ == {4,3,2} where each
    `Agent` is signified by a digit that is equal to the _level_.  Note
    that this example supports 24 compute nodes.  The _is_level_root_
    parameter is true for one child of each parent and only if this
    parameter is true will the controller call the `ascend`() or
    `descend`() methods of the object.

```
                                    (3)
                         ___________/ \___________
                        /                         \
                   __ (2)                         (2) __
           _______/  /   \____               ____/   \  \_______
          /         |         \             /         |         \
        (1)        (1)        (1)         (1)        (1)        (1)
       -- --      -- --      -- --       -- --      -- --      -- --
      / | | \    / | | \    / | | \     / | | \    / | | \    / | | \
    (0)(0|0)(0)(0)(0|0)(0)(0)(0|0)(0) (0)(0|0)(0)(0)(0|0)(0)(0)(0|0)(0)
```

  * `validate_policy`():
    Called by Controller to validate incoming policy values and replace
    NaNs with defaults.  If a value of _in_policy_ is not NaN but the value
    is not supported by the Agent the method with throw a geopm::Exception
    with error code GEOPM_ERROR_INVALID.

  * `descend`():
    Split policy for children at next level down the tree.  The
    _in_policy_ is an input vector of policy values from the parent.
    The _out_policy_ is an output vector of policies to be sent to
    each child.  Returns true if out_policy has been updated since
    the last call.

  * `ascend`():
    Aggregate samples from children for the next level up the tree.
    The _in_sample_ parameter is a vector of sample vectors, one
    sample vector from each child.  The samples from a given index
    in the input vectors are transformed to a single value at the
    same index in the output.  The _out_sample_ is an output vector
    of aggregated sample values to be sent up to the parent.
    Returns true if out_sample has been updated since the last call.

  * `adjust_platform`():
    Adjust the platform settings based on the policy from above.
    Settings for each control in the _policy_.  Returns true if
    the platform was adjusted, false otherwise.

  * `sample_platform`():
    Read signals from the platform and interpret/aggregate these
    signals to create a sample which can be sent up the tree.  The
    _sample_ parameter is an output vector of agent specific sample
    values to be sent up the tree. Returns true if the sample has been
    updated since the last call.

  * `wait`():
    Called to wait for the sample period to elapse. This controls the
    cadence of the Controller main loop.

  * `report_header`():
    Custom fields that will be added to the report header when this
    agent is used.

  * `report_node`():
    Custom fields for the node section of the report.

  * `report_region`():
    Custom fields for each region in the report.

  * `trace_names`():
    Column headers to be added to the trace.

  * `trace_values`():
    Called to get latest values to be added to the trace.

  * `num_policy`():
    Used to look up the number of values in the policy vector sent
    down the tree for a specific type of `Agent`. This should be
    called with the dictionary returned by
    `agent_factory`().`dictionary`(_agent_name_) for the `Agent` of
    interest.  Note this is a static helper function.

  * `num_sample`():
    Used to look up the number of values in the sample vector sent up
    the tree for a specific type of `Agent`. This should be called
    with the dictionary returned by
    `agent_factory`().`dictionary`(_agent_name_) for the `Agent` of
    interest. Note this is a static helper function.

  * `policy_names`():
    Used to look up the names of values in the policy vector sent down
    the tree for a specific type of `Agent`. This should be called
    with the dictionary returned by
    `agent_factory`().`dictionary`(_agent_name_) for the `Agent` of
    interest. Note this is a static helper function.

  * `sample_names`():
    Used to look up the names of values in the sample vector sent up
    the tree for a specific of `Agent`. This should be called with the
    dictionary returned by
    `agent_factory`().`dictionary`(_agent_name_) for the `Agent` of
    interest. Note this is a static helper function.

  * `make_dictionary`():
    Used to create a correctly formatted dictionary for an `Agent` at
    the time the `Agent` is registered with the factory. Concrete
    Agent classes may provide policy_names() and sample_names()
    methods to provide the vectors to be passed to this method.  Note
    this is a static helper function.

  * `aggregate_sample`():
    Generically aggregate a vector of samples given a vector of
    aggregation functions. This helper method applies a different
    aggregation function to each sample element while aggregating
    across child samples. The _in_sample_ parameter is an input vector
    over children of the sample vector received from each child.  The
    _agg_func_ is an input vector over agent samples of the
    aggregation function that is applied.  The _out_sample_ is an
    output sample vector resulting from the applying the aggregation
    across child samples.  Note this is a static helper function.

## ERRORS
All functions described on this man page throw **geopm::Exception(3)**
on error.

## EXAMPLE
Please see the (Agent
tutorial)[https://github.com/geopm/geopm/tree/dev/tutorial/agent] for more
information.  This code is located in the GEOPM source under tutorial/agent.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**
