geopm_monitor_agent(7) -- agent implementation that enforces no policies
======================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## DESCRIPTION
An implementation of the Agent interface that enforces no policies and is intended
for application tracing and profiling only.

## AGENT BEHAVIOR HIGHLIGHTS

* Agent Name:
  Set the `GEOPM_AGENT` environment varible to "monitor" and the Kontroller instances
  will select the Monitor Agent for its control handler.

* Signals Ascending:
  The Monitor agent sends board power and CPU frequency up the tree.

* Controls Descending:
  N/A

* Tracing Modifications:
  N/A

* Report Modifiers:
  N/A

* Control Loop Gate:
  The Monitor agent gates the Kontrollers control loop to a cadence of 5ms.  This agent propogates
  its ascending signals up the tree every 5ms.  The aggregation for board power and CPU frequency
  are sum and average as they ascend up the tree, respectively.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopmpy(7)**,
**geopm_ctl_c(3)**,
**geopm_error(3)**,
**geopm_fortran(3)**,
**geopm_policy_c(3)**,
**geopm_prof_c(3)**,
**geopm_sched(3)**,
**geopm_version(3)**,
**geopmanalysis(1)**,
**geopmaprun(1)**,
**geopmbench(1)**,
**geopmctl(1)**,
**geopmplotter(1)**,
**geopmendpoint(1)**,
**geopmsrun(1)**
