geopmpy(7) -- global extensible open power manager python package
=======================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## DESCRIPTION
An extension to the Global Extensible Open Power Manager (GEOPM), the geopmpy
package provides several command line tools and other infrastructure modules for
both setting up and launching a job utilizing GEOPM and post-processing the profiling
data that is output from GEOPM.  Presently there are 3 command line tools provided:

**geopmaprun**<br>
**geopmsrun**<br>
These scripts will invoke the GEOPM launcher for either the ALPS or SLURM
resource managers.  See **geopmpy_launcher(1)** for more information.

**geopmplotter**<br>
This script will post-process the report and trace data output from GEOPM.
It is capable of producing many different plots to aid in analysis.
It can also be utilized to perform live data analysis through the Python
shell.  See **geopmplotter(1)** for more information.

In addition, there is 1 infrastructure module provided:

**io.py**<br>
This module provides tools for parsing and encapsulating report and trace data
into either simple structures or Pandas DataFrames.  It can be used to parse
any number of files, and houses structures that can be queried for said data.
This module also houses certain analysis functions in the Trace class for
extracting specific data.  See the in-file docstrings for more info.

## INSTALLATION

  * `Source Builds`:
  Building GEOPM with the build instructions posted on the GitHub site will put
  the Python scripts in either the system path for Python, or in a subdirectory
  of the "--prefix" path.  See the [ENVIRONMENT][] section for more information on
  how to setup this configuration.

  * `Via PyPI`:
    The geopmpy package can be installed via pip from PyPI with:

      sudo pip install geopmpy<br><br>

      OR for an individual user install (not system wide)<br><br>

      pip install --user geopmpy


## ENVIRONMENT

* `PYTHONPATH` and `PATH`:
  If you are installing GEOPM into the system's default paths for Python, etc.
  then there is nothing to be done here.  Otherwise, if you are using
  "--prefix=<PREFIX_PATH>" when you run configure then you must set your
  `PYTHONPATH` to:

    export PYTHONPATH=<PREFIX_PATH>/lib/python2.7/site-packages:${PYTHONPATH}

  You must also set your `PATH` variable to:

    export PATH=<PREFIX_PATH>/bin:${PATH}

  It is recommended to do this in your login script (e.g. .bashrc).

## TROUBLESHOOTING

If you have an existing clone of the GEOPM GitHub repo and are experiencing
a pkg_resources.DistributionNotFound error when attempting to run the Python
scripts, please remove the VERSION file at the root of your repo and re-run
autogen.sh.

The version file will be removed if the `dist-clean` Makefile target is invoked.
This is also remedied by rerunning autogen.sh

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016, 2017, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_ctl_c(3)**,
**geopm_error(3)**,
**geopm_fortran(3)**,
**geopm_omp(3)**,
**geopm_policy_c(3)**,
**geopm_prof_c(3)**,
**geopm_version(3)**,
**geopmsrun(1)**,
**geopmaprun(1)**,
**geopmplotter(1)**,
**geopmctl(1)**,
**geopmpolicy(1)**
