geopmread(1) -- query platform information
======================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS

PRINT ALL SIGNAL NAMES <br>
`geopmread`

PRINT DOMAIN NAME AND SIZE <br>
`geopmread` -d [SIGNAL_NAME] <br>

READ SIGNAL <br>
`geopmread` SIGNAL_NAME DOMAIN_TYPE DOMAIN_INDEX

GET HELP OR VERSION <br>
`geopmread` --help | --version

## DESCRIPTION

Provides a command line interface to PlatformIO and PlatformTopo.
This tool can be used to read hardware/OS state through high-level
signal aliases and query other information about the platform such as
the type and number of hardware domains.  Details of the hardware
domains can also be inferred from the output of **lscpu(1)**.

When run without any arguments, the default behavior is to print a
summary of available signals.  Some signals, namely the region-related
signals, are only relevant when using geopm to run an application and
will not yield useful values when sampled with `geopmread`.

To read a specific signal, `geopmread` should be run with the name,
domain type, and domain index of the signal of interest.  Note that
the domain type can be the native domain of the signal (as shown in
the summary) or any larger containing domain, in which case the signal
value will be aggregated into a single value for the larger domain.
All other domains are contained within _board_.  _core_, _cpu_,
_package_memory_, and _package_nic_ are contained within package.
_cpu_ is contained within _core_.  The following outline summarizes the
hierarchy of containing domains, where each domain is also contained in
parents of its parent domain.

`board` - domain for node-wide signals and controls <br>
++`package` - socket <br>
++++`core` - physical core <br>
++++++`cpu` - Linux logical CPU <br>
++++`package_memory` - on-package memory <br>
++++`package_nic` - NIC within the package <br>
++++`package_accelerator` - domain for accelerators within the package <br>
++`board_memory` - other memory outside the package <br>
++`board_nic` - NIC attached to the board <br>
++`board_accelerator` - domain for accelerators on the board

The aggregation functions used for each signal are described in
**geopm(7)** under the description for GEOPM_TRACE_SIGNALS.  The same
functions are used to aggregate signals in the trace into the board
domain.

## OPTIONS

  * `-d`:
    Print domain of a signal, or print a list of all domains on the
    system.

  * `--help`:
    Print brief summary of the command line usage information,
    then exit.

  * `--version`:
    Print version of **geopm(7)** to standard output, then exit.

## EXAMPLES

List domains and size:

    $ geopmread -d
    board                1
    package              2
    core                 64
    cpu                  128
    board_memory         2
    package_memory       1
    board_nic            1
    package_nic          0
    board_accelerator    0
    package_accelerator  0

List all available signals on the system:

    $ geopmread
    TIME
    ENERGY_PACKAGE
    ENERGY_DRAM
    POWER_PACKAGE
    POWER_DRAM
    FREQUENCY

Show domain type and size for ENERGY_DRAM signal:

    $ geopmread -d ENERGY_DRAM
    board_memory (2)

Read the current energy for package 1:

    $ geopmread ENERGY_PACKAGE package 1
    34567

Read the total energy for both packages:

    $ geopmread ENERGY_PACKAGE board 0
    56789

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopmpy(7)**,
**geopm_ctl_c(3)**,
**geopm_error(3)**,
**geopm_fortran(3)**,
**geopm_policy_c(3)**,
**geopm_prof_c(3)**,
**geopm_sched(3)**,
**geopm_version(3)**,
**geopmagent(1)**,
**geopmanalysis(1)**,
**geopmaprun(1)**,
**geopmbench(1)**,
**geopmctl(1)**,
**geopmendpoint(1)**,
**geopmplotter(1)**,
**geopmsrun(1)**,
**geopmwrite(1)**,
**lscpu(1)**
