geopmanalysis(1) -- run application and visualize results
=========================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS

`geopmanalysis` _ANALYSIS_TYPE_ [_ANALYSIS_OPTIONS_] [_LAUNCH_OPTIONS_] -- _EXEC_ [_EXEC_ARGS_]

## DESCRIPTION

Used to run applications and analyze results for specific GEOPM use
cases.  An application must be launched at least once to generate
report files. When using geopmanalysis to launch applications, it
should be run within an allocation to ensure that all runs use the
same set of nodes. Once all the required reports have been generated,
the analysis can be rerun without needing an allocation using the
`--geopm-analysis-skip-launch` option.  Using the
`--geopm-analysis-output-dir` option to specify a unique directory for
each analysis is highly recommended so that reports and traces from
different experiments are not combined by mistake.  Note that any
arguments to the launcher are also accepted by geopmanalysis; see
**geopmlaunch(1)** for more details.

## ANALYSIS TYPES
The available analysis types are:

* _freq_sweep_:
  Runs the application at each available frequency. Compared to the baseline
  frequency, finds the lowest frequency for each region at which the performance
  will not be degraded by more than a given margin.

* _offline_:
  Compares the energy_efficient agent in offline mode to the
  baseline at sticker frequency.

* _online_:
  Compares the energy_efficient agent in online mode to the
  baseline at sticker frequency.

* _hint_:
  Compares the energy_efficient agent using per-region hints to the
  baseline at sticker frequency.

* _stream_mix_:
  Runs a full frequency sweep, then offline and online modes of the
  energy_efficient agent. The energy and runtime of the application
  best-fit, per-phase offline mode, and per-phase online mode are
  compared to the run at sticker frequency.  Note: unlike other
  analysis types, this analysis uses the geopmbench application, and
  application arguments should *not* be passed to it.

* _power_sweep_:
  Runs the application under a range of socket power limits.

* _balancer_:
  Runs the application under a given range of power caps using the
  power governor and power balancer agents.  Compares the performance
  of the two agents at each power cap.

* _node_efficiency_:
  Runs a power sweep, then calculates the achieved frequency of each
  node at each power cap.

* _node_power_:
  Runs the application without any policy settings and plots the
  average power achieved by each node.

## COMMON OPTIONS FOR ALL ANALYSIS TYPES

* `-h`, `--help`:
  Show help message and exit.  When used with an analysis type, it
  shows additional options for that analysis.

* `--version`:
  Show the GEOPM version number and exit.

* `--geopm-analysis-skip-launch`:
  Do not launch jobs, only analyze existing data.  Required unless
  `--geopm-analysis-launcher` is set.

* `--geopm-analysis-launcher` _GEOPM_LAUNCHER_:
  Required unless `--geopm-analysis-skip-launch` is set.  Specifies the
  underlying launch mechanism for the analysis job.  See **geopmlaunch(1)**
  for more information.

* `--geopm-analysis-output-dir` _OUTPUT_DIR_:
  The output directory for reports, traces, and plots (default: '.').

* `--geopm-analysis-profile-prefix` _PREFIX_:
  Prefix to prepend to profile name when launching. Depending on the
  type of analysis, several profiles will be generated. For example,
  the freq_sweep analysis appends the frequency for each run to this
  prefix.

* `--geopm-analysis-summary`:
  Print a summary of the data depending on the analysis type.

* `--geopm-analysis-plot`:
  Generate plots of the data.

* `--geopm-analysis-verbose`:
  Print verbose debugging information.

* `--geopm-analysis-iterations` _NUM_ITERATIONS_:
  Number of iterations to perform for every type of analysis.
  E.g. for the OfflineFrequencyAnalysis, _NUM_ITERATIONS_ runs will be
  performed at every available frequency.  The data is averaged
  together prior to evaluating what the best per-region frequency
  is. (default: _1_)

## OPTIONS FOR FREQ_SWEEP ANALYSIS

The same options are also used for _offline_, _online_, and _hint_.

* `--geopm-analysis-min-freq`:
  The minimum frequency to use for the sweep and analysis.  If out of
  range, the minimum available frequency on the platform will be used.

* `--geopm-analysis-max-freq`:
  The maximum frequency to use for the sweep and analysis.  If out of
  range, the maximum available frequency on the platform will be used.

* `--geopm-analysis-enable-turbo`:
  When calculating the best per region frequencies, this flag
  stipulates that frequencies in the turbo range should be considered.
  By default, this flag is not set meaning frequencies in the turbo
  range are not considered.

## OPTIONS FOR POWER_SWEEP ANALYSIS

* `--geopm-analysis-min-power`:
  The minimum package power to use for the sweep and analysis.  If out
  of range, the minimum power for the platform will be used.

* `--geopm-analysis-max-power`:
  The maximum package power to use for the sweep and analysis.  If out
  of range, the maximum power for the platform will be used.

* `--geopm-analysis-step-power`:
  Step size in watts between power settings for the sweep.  The
  default step size is 10W.

* `--geopm-analysis-agent-type`:
  Which agent to use.  This should be an agent that requires a power
  cap as part of the policy, i.e. power_governor or power_balancer.

## OPTIONS FOR BALANCER ANALYSIS

This analysis type accepts the options for _power_sweep_ analysis, plus
the following additional options:

* `--geopm-analysis-metric`:
  Metric to plot for comparison (_runtime_, _power_, or _energy_).

* `--geopm-analysis-normalize`:
  Whether to normalize results to governor at highest power budget.

* `--geopm-analysis-speedup`:
  Plot the inverse of the target data to show speedup as a positive change.

## OPTIONS FOR NODE_EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS

This analysis type accepts the options for _power_sweep_ analysis, plus
the following additional options:

* `--geopm-analysis-min-freq`:
  Minimum frequency to display for plotting.  Default is 0.5 GHz.

* `--geopm-analysis-max-freq`:
  Maximum frequency to display for plotting.  Default is 3.0 GHz.

* `--geopm-analysis-step-freq`:
  Size of frequency bins to use for plotting.  Default is 100 MHz.

* `--geopm-analysis-sticker-freq`:
  Sticker frequency of the system where data was collected.  If not
  provided, the current system sticker frequency will be used.

* `--geopm-analysis-nodelist`:
  Range of nodes separated by '-' to use for analysis. This option is
  not used for launch and should contain a range of nodes for which
  previously collected data is available.

## OPTIONS FOR NODE_POWER ANALYSIS

* `--geopm-analysis-min-power`:
  Minimum power to display for plotting.  Default is 120W.

* `--geopm-analysis-max-power`:
  Maximum power to display for plotting.  Default is 200W.

* `--geopm-analysis-step-power`:
  Size of power bins to use for plotting.  Default is 10W.

## EXAMPLES
  Once the geopmpy modules are installed, you can invoke this utility
  directly from the command line.  You can either run the utility from
  inside a directory containing data, or from a remote directory.
  Some examples follow:

  The _freq_sweep_ analysis type runs the application once at each
  available frequency on the platform. The summary generated from this
  analysis can be used for other types of analysis. The output from
  the frequency sweep is a mapping of the best-fit frequency for each
  region that saves energy while not letting the runtime increase more
  than 10%.  It can also generate plots of the runtime and energy of
  each region at each frequency setting.  In this example, options
  beginning with --geopm-analysis- control the output from analysis,
  --geopm-ctl is passed though to the geopm launcher
  (**geopmlaunch(1)**), and -N1 and -n1 are passed through to the
  underlying resource manager.

    geopmanalysis freq_sweep --geopm-analysis-profile-prefix myprof \
                             --geopm-analysis-output-dir mydir \
                             --geopm-analysis-summary \
                             --geopm-ctl process \
                             --geopm-analysis-launcher srun \
                             -N1 -n1 -- ./build/bin/geopmbench config.json

  The _offline_ analysis type runs a frequency sweep (if reports are
  not already present) to determine the best-fit frequency for each
  region of the application. Then it runs the application using the
  EnergyEfficientAgent plugin, which uses this mapping to change the
  frequency when entering each region. The _online_ analysis type is
  similar except that it determines the best-fit frequency through
  online training.

    geopmanalysis offline --geopm-analysis-profile-prefix myprof \
                          --geopm-analysis-output-dir mydir \
                          --geopm-ctl process \
                          --geopm-analysis-launcher srun \
                          -N1 -n1 -- ./build/bin/geopmbench config.json

  If an analysis launch has been run once, the same data can be reused
  using the --geopm-analysis-skip-launch option without supplying
  launcher options (--geopm-launcher, number of nodes, --geopm-ctl, etc.)
  or application arguments.  This option can also be used to analyze reports and
  traces generated through another launch method, provided that the
  profile names and file names are consistent with what the analysis
  expects.  For example, the following command generates plots for the
  previous analysis:

    geopmanalysis offline --geopm-analysis-profile-prefix myprof \
                          --geopm-analysis-output-dir myprof \
                          --geopm-analysis-plot \
                          --geopm-analysis-skip-launch \
                          --geopm-analysis-min-freq 1.0e9 \
                          --geopm-analysis-max-freq 2.0e9

  The _stream_mix_ analysis type uses the geopmbench application and
  varies the ratio between the runtimes of the stream and dgemm
  regions from around 20% stream to around 80% stream. For each ratio,
  it launches a frequency sweep and the offline and online analysis
  modes described above. The resulting analysis produces plots
  comparing the runtime and energy savings of the different plugin
  modes at each stream mix ratio.  Note that no application arguments
  are passed to the command below, although other launch arguments are
  required.

    geopmanalysis stream_mix --geopm-analysis-profile-prefix myprof \
                             --geopm-analysis-output-dir myprof \
                             --geopm-analysis-plot \
                             --geopm-ctl=process
                             --geopm-analysis-launcher srun \
                             -N1 -n1

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopmpy(7)**,
**geopmbench(1)**,
**geopmlaunch(1)**,
**geopmplotter(1)**,
