geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7) -- agent for saving energy
==========================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## DESCRIPTION

The goal of this Agent is to save energy without degrading performance
beyond an acceptable limit.  It achieves this by setting frequencies
per region so that memory- and I/O-bound regions run at lower
frequencies without increasing runtime but CPU-bound regions are still
run at high frequencies.

There are two modes available: offline and online.  In the offline
mode, the best frequencies for each region are specified in the
environment variable `GEOPM_EFFICIENT_FREQ_RID_MAP`, which is a
JSON-formatted string mapping region name to frequency in Hertz,
e.g. '{"region1": 1200000000, "region2": 1500000000}'.  For this node,
the environment variable `GEOPM_EFFICIENT_FREQ_ONLINE` must be
unset. If a frequency for a region is not specified, the region hint
will be used and the frequency will be set to either the minimum or
maximum available frequency.  See **geopm_prof_c(3)** for the list of
region hints.  These best-fit frequencies can be determined by running
the application once at each available frequency and checking the
performance of each region; this frequency sweep is available as an
analysis type for `geopmanalysis` described in **geopmanalysis(1)**.
The online mode finds the optimal frequency for each region
dynamically by measuring the performance of each region and reducing
the frequency as long as the performance is still within acceptable
limits.  The performance metric used is the maximum of the runtimes
reported by each rank for the last execution of the region in question
(lower is better).  The agent also avoids reducing frequency if energy
would increase (due to performance loss in a frequency-sensitive
region). Up to 10% performance loss is allowed.  Enable the online
mode by setting `GEOPM_EFFICIENT_FREQ_ONLINE` and unsetting
`GEOPM_EFFICIENT_FREQ_RID_MAP`, which is not used by the online mode.

## AGENT BEHAVIOR HIGHLIGHTS

Policies and samples are the control parameters and sampled values
measured by the Agent.  See **geopm::Agent(3)** for more explanation
of how these policies and samples are communicated between agents
and with the resource manager.  The Agent interface also provides
methods for the Agent to extend reports and traces with additional
Agent-specific information.

* `Agent Name`:
  Set the `--geopm-agent` launch option or `GEOPM_AGENT` environment
  variable to "energy_efficient" and the Controller will select the
  EnergyEfficientAgent for its control handler.  See
  **geopm_launch(1)** and **geopm(7)** for more information about
  launch options and environment variables.

* `Ordered Policies Descending`:
  The minimum and maximum frequency are passed down as policies.
  Setting both to the same value can be used to force the entire
  application to run at one frequency.

  `FREQ_MIN`: The minimum frequency that the algorithm is allowed to
              choose for any region.  If NAN is passed, it will use
              the minimum available frequency by default.

  `FREQ_MAX`: The maximum frequency that the algorithm is allowed to
              choose for any region.  If NAN is passed, it will use
              the maximum available frequency by default.

* `Ordered Samples Ascending`:

  `ENERGY_PACKAGE`: Total energy from the packages across all child
                    nodes.  At the root, this is the total energy for
                    all nodes in the job.

  `FREQUENCY`: The average frequency across child nodes.  At the root,
               this is the average frequency across all nodes in the
               job.

* `Tracing Modifications`:
  N/A

* `Report Modifications`:
  The per-node final frequency for each region is added to the report.
  This reflects the settings from the map or hint in offline mode, or
  the learned best frequency determined by the online mode.

* `Control Loop Gate`:
  The agent gates the Controller's control loop to a cadence of 5ms.
  This agent propagates its ascending signals up the tree every 50ms
  (10 control cycles).

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_agent_monitor(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_governor(7)**,
**geopm::Agent(3)**,
**geopm_agent_c(3)**,
**geopm_prof_c(3)**,
**geopmagent(1)**,
**geopmanalysis(1)**,
**geopmlaunch(1)**