geopmpy_launcher(1) -- geopm application launch wrapper
======================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS

`geopmsrun` [_srun-options_] [_OPTIONS_] `--` executable [_exec-args_]

`geopmaprun` [_aprun-options_] [_OPTIONS_] `--` executable [_exec-args_]

## DESCRIPTION
The GEOPM launcher enables users to launch the GEOPM runtime with a
simple command line interface extension to the resource manager's
underlying job launch mechanism deployed on their system.  The
currently supported job launch mechanisms are `srun` from the SLURM
package and `aprun` from the ALPS package.  The GEOPM package installs
the `geopmsrun` and `geopmaprun` executables which run the
geopmpy.launcher.main() method in the geopmpy python package.  These
interfaces extend the resource manager's job launch application with
GEOPM specific flags.  All application launch options accepted by the
underlying launch application (e.g. `srun` or `aprun`) can be passed
to the GEOPM launch wrapper with the exception of CPU affinity related
options.  The wrapper script reinterprets the command line to set
environment variables and pass modified options to the underlying job
launch application.  The reinterpreted command line is echoed to
standard output by the script before execution.  The wrapper sets
environment variables used by GEOPM which are described in
**geopm(7)**, sets process CPU affinity to meet the requirements of
GEOPM and extends the allocation to have reserved CPUs and extra
processes as required by the GEOPM runtime.

Note: the primary compute executable and its command line options must
appear at the end of the command line and be preceded by two dashes:
`--`. The GEOPM launcher will stop parsing arguments following the `--`
sequence and pass the arguments that follow unaltered while removing
the first `--` from the command line.

## OPTIONS

* `--geopm-ctl` _process_|_pthread_|_application_:
  Use GEOPM runtime and launch GEOPM with one of three methods:
  _process_, _pthread_ or _application_.  The _process_ method
  allocates one extra MPI process per node for the GEOPM controller.
  The _pthread_ method spawns a thread from one MPI process per node
  to run the GEOPM controller.  The _application_ method launches the
  **geopmctl(1)** application in the background which connects to the
  primary compute application.  The _process_ method can be used in
  the widest variety of cases, but some systems require that each MPI
  process be assigned the same number of CPUs which may waste
  resources by assigning more than one CPU to the GEOPM controller
  process.  The _pthread_ option requires support for
  MPI_THREAD_MULTIPLE which is not enabled at many sites and on some
  systems affinitizing one extra CPU to the MPI process that threads
  out the controller may be not be possible resulting in running the
  GEOPM controller on the same CPU as the main compute application.
  The _application_ method of launch is not compatible with `aprun`
  and with `srun` the call must be made inside of an existing
  allocation made with salloc or sbatch and the command must request
  all of the compute nodes assigned to the allocation. Note: if the
  `--geopm-ctl` option is not specified the launcher script simply
  passes all command line arguments to the system application launcher
  without modification.

* `--geopm-policy` policy:
  GEOPM policy file or shared memory region.  See **geopmpolicy(1)**
  for more information about how to create this input file and
  **geopm_policy(3)** to learn about creating the shared memory
  region.  If the option begins with a leading "/" character with no
  other occurrence of the "/" character, it is interpreted as a shared
  memory key, otherwise it is interpreted as a path to a GEOPM json
  policy file.

* `--geopm-report` file:
  The GEOPM report output file describing the profiling information
  collected by GEOPM.  This file is generated at the conclusion of the
  run if this option is given.  The report contains information about
  runtimes, MPI usage, and power consumption.  The report is broken
  down by region if the application has been annotated with the GEOPM
  region interface.

* `--geopm-trace` path:
  The base name of the trace files generated if this option is
  specified.  One trace file is generated for each compute node used
  by the application containing a pipe delimited ASCII table
  describing a time series of measurements made by the GEOPM runtime.
  The path is extended with the host name of the node for each created
  file.  This feature is primarily a debugging tool, and will not
  scale to large node counts due to file system issues.

* `--geopm-profile` name:
  The name of the profile which is printed in the report and trace
  files.  This name can be used to index the data in post-processing.

* `--geopm-shmkey` key:
  Specify a special prefix to be used with all of the shared memory
  keys generated by the GEOPM runtime.  This is useful for avoiding
  collisions with keys that were not properly cleaned up.  The default
  key prefix is "geopm-shm".

* `--geopm-timeout` sec:
  Time in seconds that the application should wait for the GEOPM
  controller to connect over shared memory.  The default value is 30
  seconds.

* `--geopm-plugin` path:
  Enables GEOPM to search for plugins in places other than the default
  location.  The option is a ":" separated list of directories to
  search.

* `--geopm-debug-attach` rank:
  Enables a serial debugger such as gdb to attach to a job when the
  GEOPM PMPI wrappers are enabled.  If set to a numerical value the
  associated rank will be trapped in MPI_Init() until a debugger is
  attached and the local variable "cont" is set to a non-zero value.
  If set, but not to a numerical value then all ranks are trapped.
  The runtime will print a message explaining the hostname and process
  ID that the debugger should attach to.

* `--geopm-barrier`:
  Enables a node local MPI_Barrier() at time of calling
  `geopm_region_enter`() or `geopm_region_exit`() for all application
  ranks that share a node.  Since the geopm controller only considers
  a region to be entered when all ranks on a node have entered the
  region, enabling this feature forces control throughout all of the
  time every rank spends in a region.  This feature is primarily used
  for debugging purposes.  WARNING: If all regions marked in the
  application are not entered synchronously by all ranks on a node
  then enabling this feature will cause a deadlock and the application
  will hang.

* `--geopm-preload`:
  Use LD_PRELOAD to link libgeopm.so at runtime.  This can be used to
  enable the GEOPM runtime when an application has not been compiled
  against libgeopm.so.

## EXAMPLES

Use geopmsrun to launch the geopm tutorial6 on two nodes using 32
application MPI process each with four threads:

    geopmsrun -N 2 -n 32 -c 4 --geopm-ctl=process --geopm-report=tutorial6.report -- ./tutorial6 tutorial6_config.json

Use geopomaprun to launch the miniFE executable with the same
configuration:

    geopmaprun -N 16 -n 32 --cpus-per-pe 4 --geopm-ctl process --geopm-report miniFE.report -- ./miniFE.x -nx 256 -nz 256

## ENVIRONMENT
The `GEOPM_RM` environment variable can be used to select which
underlying resource manager to use.  Valid values are "SLURM" and
"ALPS".

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016, 2017, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopmpy(7)**,
**geopm_ctl_c(3)**,
**geopm_error(3)**,
**geopm_fortran(3)**,
**geopm_sched(3)**,
**geopm_policy_c(3)**,
**geopm_prof_c(3)**,
**geopm_version(3)**,
**geopmplotter(1)**,
**geopmctl(1)**,
**geopmpolicy(1)**
