geopm_agent_power_governor(7) -- agent enforces a power cap
==============================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## DESCRIPTION

The PowerGovernorAgent enforces a per-compute-node power cap of the
total power of all packages (sockets).

## AGENT BEHAVIOR HIGHLIGHTS
Policies and samples are vectors of double precision values where each
value has a meaning defined by the **geopm::Agent(3)** implementation.
The Agent interface also provides methods for the Agent to extend
reports and traces with additional Agent-specific information.

* `Agent Name`:
  Set the `--geopm-agent` launch option or `GEOPM_AGENT` environment
  variable to "power_governor" and the Controller will select the
  PowerGovernorAgent for its control handler.  See **geopmlaunch(1)**
  and **geopm(7)** for more information about launch options and
  environment variables.

* `Agent Policy Definitions`:

  `POWER`: Sets the average power cap per compute node in units of
           Watts.  If NAN is passed for the power cap, the value will
           default to the thermal design power (TDP).

* `Agent Sample Definitions`:

  `POWER`: Median total package and DRAM power for the node in Watts
           measured over the last epoch.

  `IS_CONVERGED`: Will be 1.0 if the power policy has been
                  enforced and the power consumption by all nodes is
                  within the assigned limits, otherwise it will be
                  0.0.

  `POWER_AVERAGE_ENFORCED`: Enforced power limit averaged over all compute nodes.
                  This value corresponds to the `POWER_AVERAGE` policy field and
                  is expected to match unless the policy is unachievable.

* `Trace Column Extensions`:

  `power_budget`: Power budget assigned to the compute node associated
                  with the trace file at time of sampling.


* `Report Extensions`:
  N/A

* `Control Loop Gate`:
  The Monitor agent gates the Controller's control loop to a cadence
  of 5ms.  This agent propagates its ascending signals up the tree
  every 50ms.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7)**,
**geopm_agent_monitor(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
**geopm::Agent(3)**,
**geopm_agent_c(3)**,
**geopm_prof_c(3)**,
**geopmagent(1)**,
**geopmlaunch(1)**
