geopm::Endpoint(3) -- geopm endpoint interface
==============================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## NAMESPACES

The `Endpoint` class is a member of the `namespace geopm`, but the
full name, `geopm::Endpoint`, has been abbreviated in this manual.
Similarly, the `std::` namespace specifier has been omitted from the
interface definitions for the following standard types: `std::vector`,
`std::string`, and `std::set`, to enable better rendering of this
manual.

Note that the `Endpoint` class is an abstract base class.  There is one
concrete implementation, `EndpointImp`, which uses shared memory to
implement the Endpoint interface functionality.

## SYNOPSIS

**\#include [<geopm/Endpoint.hpp>](https://github.com/geopm/geopm/blob/dev/src/Endpoint.hpp)**

`Link with -lgeopm`

  * `static std::unique_ptr<Endpoint> Endpoint::make_unique(`:
    `const string &`_data_path_`);`

  * `virtual void Endpoint::open(`:
     `void);`

  * `virtual void Endpoint::close(`:
    `void);`

  * `virtual void Endpoint::write_policy(`:
    `const vector<double> &`_policy_`);`

  * `virtual double Endpoint::read_sample(`:
    `vector<double> &`_sample_`);`

  * `virtual string Endpoint::get_agent(`:
    `void);`

  * `virtual string Endpoint::get_profile_name(`:
    `void);`

  * `virtual set<string> Endpoint::get_hostnames(`:
    `void);`

## DESCRIPTION
The `Endpoint` class is the underlying C++ implementation for the
**geopm_endpoint_c(3)** C interface.  Please refer to the
**geopm_endpoint_c(3)** man page for a general description of the
purpose, goals, and use cases for this interface.

## FACTORY METHOD
  * `make_unique`():
    This method returns a unique_ptr<Endpoint> to a concrete
    EndpointImp object.  The shared memory prefix should be given in
    _data_path_.

## CLASS METHODS
  * `open`():
    creates the underlying shared memory regions belonging to the
    Endpoint.

  * `close`():
    unlinks the shared memory regions belonging to the Endpoint.

  * `write_policy`():
    writes a set of policy values given in _policy_ to the endpoint.
    The order of the values is determined by the currently attached
    agent; see **geopm::Agent(3)**.

  * `read_sample`():
    reads the most recent set of sample values from the endpoint into
    the output vector, _sample_, and returns the sample age in seconds.
    The order of the values is determined by the currently attached
    agent; see **geopm::Agent(3)**.

  * `get_agent`():
    returns the agent name associated with the Controller attached to
    this endpoint, or empty if no Controller is attached.

  * `get_profile_name`():
    returns the profile name associated with the attached job, or
    empty if no Controller is attached.

  * `get_hostnames`():
    returns the set of hostnames used by the Controller attached to
    this endpoint, or empty if no Controller is attached.


## ERRORS
All functions described on this man page throw **geopm::Exception(3)**
on error.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_endpoint_c(3)**
