geopmendpoint(1) -- command line tool for dynamic policy control
================================================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS

`geopmendpoint` [`-c` | `-d` | `-a` | `-p` _POLICY0_,_POLICY1_,...] _ENDPOINT_

## DESCRIPTION

Command line interface to create, query, read, write, and destroy a
GEOPM runtime endpoint.  A GEOPM endpoint is a shared memory attach
point to connect a managing process (e.g. a resource manager or job
scheduler) to a GEOPM controller.  The endpoint supports writing of
agent-specific policies and the reading of agent-specific signals.
The agent signals and controls are described on the **geopmagent(1)**
man page.  The _ENDPOINT_ positional argument specifies the endpoint
name and is typically the name associated with the job or the job
identifier.  This string is arbitrary, but cannot contain the '/' or
',' characters.  This name distinguishes all endpoints running on any
given compute node (coherent shared memory).  If the `geopmendpoint`
executable is run with no arguments then a list of all policy
endpoints available on the system is printed to standard output.

## OPTIONS
  * `-c`:
    Create an endpoint for an attaching agent.

  * `-d`:
    Destroy the endpoint and send a signal to any attached agent that
    no more policies will be written or samples read from the
    endpoint.

  * `-a`:
    Check if an agent has attached to the endpoint, and print the name
    of the agent if it has.  The return value will be non-zero if an
    agent has not yet attached to the endpoint.

  * `-s`:
    Read a sample from the attached agent, if any.  The output has one
    line per signal.  On each line is written the signal name and
    signal value separated by a colon.  The last line of the output
    represents the SAMPLE_AGE signal which is the elapsed time since
    the last update to the endpoint by the GEOPM runtime.  The signal
    names provided by an agent can be determined with the
    **geopmagent(1)** command line tool.  The return value will be
    non-zero if an agent has not yet attached to the endpoint.

  * `-p` _POLICY0_,_POLICY1_,...:
    Set policies for the attached agent.  The values to be set for
    each policy are given in a comma-separated list.  The order of
    these values corresponds to the ordering of the policy names by
    the **geopmagent(1)** executable when the attached agent is
    specified.  The return value will be non-zero if an agent has not
    yet attached to the endpoint.


## EXAMPLES
List all endpoints on a system when none are open:

    $ geopmendpoint

Create two endpoints called "job-123" and "job-321" for agents to
attach:

    $ geopmendpoint -c job-123
    $ geopmendpoint
    job-123
    $ geopmendpoint -c job-321
    $ geopmendpoint
    job-123
    job-321

Check if agent has attached to endpoint "job-123", but no agent has
yet attached:

    $ geopmendpoint -a job-123
    Error: <geopm> No agent has attached to endpoint.

Check if agent has attached to endpoint "job-321" after a
power_balancer agent has attached:

    $ geopmendpoint -a job-321
    Agent: power_balancer
    Nodes: compute-node-4,compute-node-5,compute-node-7,compute-node-8

Set policy at endpoint for power_balancer agent with 250 Watt per
node power budget:

    $ geopmendpoint -p 250 job-321

Sample from balancing agent with endpoint "job-321":

    $ geopmendpoint -s job-321
    POWER: 247.2
    IS_CONVERGED: 1
    EPOCH_RUNTIME: 90.5
    SAMPLE_AGE: 1.234E-4

Destroy endpoints "job-123" and "job-321":

    $ geopmendpoint -d job-321
    $ geopmendpoint
    job-123
    $ geopmendpoint -d job-123
    $ geopmendpoint


## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7)**,
**geopm_agent_monitor(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_governor(7)**,
**geopm_agent_c(3)**,
**geopm_endpoint_c(3)**,
**geopmagent(1)**
