geopmlaunch(1) -- application launch wrapper
============================================

[//]: # (Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[//]: # (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[//]: # (are met:)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[//]: # (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[//]: # (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[//]: # (      distribution.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (    * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its)
[//]: # (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[//]: # (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[//]: # ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[//]: # (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[//]: # (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[//]: # (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[//]: # (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[//]: # (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[//]: # (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[//]: # ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE)
[//]: # (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

## SYNOPSIS
`geopmlaunch` _launcher_ [_launcher_opt_] [_geopm_opt_] `--` _executable_ [_executable_opt_]


## DESCRIPTION
The `geopmlaunch` application enables execution of the GEOPM runtime
along with a distributed parallel compute application, _executable_,
using the command line interface for the underlying application
scheduler, _launcher_, deployed on the HPC system.  The `geopmlaunch`
command line interface is designed to support many application
schedulers including SLURM `srun`, ALPS `aprun`, and Intel / MPICH
`mpiexec`.  The `geopmlaunch` command line interface has been designed
to wrap the underlying application scheduler while reinterpreting the
command line options, _launcher_opt_, specified for it.  In this way,
the user can easily modify an existing job launch command to enable
the GEOPM runtime by prefixing the command with `geopmlaunch` and
extending the existing scheduler options with the the options for the
GEOPM runtime, _geopm_opt_.  The GEOPM runtime options control the
behavior of the GEOPM runtime and are detailed in the `GEOPM OPTIONS`
section below.

All command line options accepted by the underlying job scheduler
(e.g. `srun` or `aprun`) can be passed to the `geopmlaunch` wrapper
with the exception of CPU affinity related options.  The wrapper
script reinterprets the command line to pass modified options and set
environment variables for the underlying application scheduler.  The
GEOPM options, _geopm_opt_, are translated into environment varaibles
to be interpreted by the GEOPM runtime (see the ENVIRONMENT section of
**geopm(7)**).  The reinterpreted command line, including the
environment modification, is printed to standard output by the script
before execution.  The command that is printed can be executed in the
`bash` shell to replicate the execution without using `geopmlaunch`
directly.  The command is modified to support the GEOPM control thread
by setting CPU affinity for each process and increasing the number of
processes per node or CPUs per process.

Note: the primary compute _executable_ and its options,
_executable_opt_, must appear at the end of the command line and be
preceded by two dashes: `--`. The GEOPM launcher will not parse
arguments to the right of the first `--` sequence and will pass the
arguments that follow unaltered while removing the first `--` from the
command line.  Refer to the EXAMPLES section below.

## SUPPORTED LAUNCHERS
The launcher is selected by specifying the _launcher_ as the first
command line parameter.  Available _launcher_ values are
listed below.

* _srun_, _SrunLauncher_:
  Wrapper for the SLURM resource manager's `srun` job launcher.  The
  `--cpu_bind` and `--cpu-bind` options are reserved for use by GEOPM;
  do not specify when using `geopmlaunch`.

* _aprun_, _AlpsLauncher_:
  Wrapper for the Cray ALPS `aprun` job launcher.  The `-cc` and
  `--cpu-binding` options are reserserved for use by GEOPM; do not
  specify these when using `geopmlaunch`.

* _impi_, _IMPIExecLauncher_:
  Wrapper for the Intel MPI `mpiexec` job launcher.  The
  `KMP_AFFINITY` `I_MPI_PIN_DOMAIN`, and `MV2_ENABLE_AFFINITY`
  environment variables reserved for use by GEOPM and are overwritten
  when using `geopmlaunch`.

* _SrunTOSSLauncher_:
  Wrapper for `srun` when used with the Trilab Operating System
  Software stack.  This special launcher was developed to support
  special affinity plugins for SLURM that were deployed at LLNL's
  computing center.  The `--cpu_bind` and `--cpu-bind` options are
  reserved for use by GEOPM; do not specify when using `geopmlaunch`.

## GEOPM OPTIONS
* `--geopm-report` path:
  Specifies the path to the GEOPM report output file that is generated
  at the conclusion of the run if this option is provided.  If the
  option is not provided, a report named "geopm.report" will be created.
  The GEOPM report contains a summary of the profiling information
  collected by GEOPM throughout the application execution.  The report
  contains information about runtimes, MPI usage, and energy
  consumption for each compute node used by the application.  The
  report is broken down by compute node and then by region.  The
  regions are defined by use of the **geopm_prof_c(3)** interface to
  mark up the user application or automatic inference of regions based
  on interposing on the MPI or OpenMP interfaces (interposing on
  OpenMP requires that the optional configuration parameter
  --enable-ompt is provided at GEOMP compile time).  Note that the
  sampled values, like 'energy', are accumulated into the sum for a
  region only when all ranks on a compute node are concurrently
  executing the same region; otherwise statistics gathered are
  accumulated within the 'unmarked-region'.  Also note that the
  `sync-runtime` accumulates the total amount of time when all ranks
  within a compute node were synchronously within the region.  The
  `runtime` value is the time spent within a region by a rank averaged
  over all ranks on the node regardless of synchronicity of execution.
  The "Application totals" are not calculated by sampling throughout
  the run, but rather by differencing values measured at the start and
  end of the application.  When comparing energy and time values from
  the report, care should be taken to use 'runtime' in the case of
  application totals, and 'sync-runtime' for all other regions.  This
  option is used by the launcher to set the `GEOPM_REPORT` environment
  variable.  The command line option will override any value currently
  set in the environment.  See the ENVIRONMENT section of
  **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-report-signals` signals:
  Used to insert additional measurements into the report beyond the
  default values.  This feature requires that the requested signals
  are increasing monotonically with time.  Each time a region is
  entered or exited the value of the signals is measured.  When the
  region is exited the value of the signal upon entry is subtracted
  from the value of the signal upon exit.  The total given in the
  report for the signal associated with the region is the cumulative
  sum of the differences for each occurrence of the region.  The value
  must be formatted as a comma-separated list of valid signal names.
  The signals available and their descriptions are documented in the
  **PlatformIO(3)** man page.

  By default the signals in the report will be aggregated to the board
  domain.  A domain other than board can be specified by appending the
  signal name with an "@" character and then specifying one of the
  domains.  For example, the following will extend the region and
  application totals sections of the report with package energy for
  each package and DRAM energy summed over the all DIMMs:

  `--geopm-report-signals=ENERGY_PACKAGE@package,ENERGY_DRAM`

  The **geopmread(1)** executable enables discovery of signals and
  domains available on your system.  The signal names and domain names
  given for this parameter are specified as in the **geopmread(1)**
  command line interface.

* `--geopm-trace` path:
  The base name and path of the trace file(s) generated if this option
  is specified.  One trace file is generated for each compute node
  used by the application containing a pipe-delimited ASCII table
  describing a time series of measurements made by the GEOPM runtime.
  The path is extended with the host name of the node for each created
  file.  The trace files will be written to the file system path
  specified or current directory if only a file name is given.  This
  feature is primarily a debugging tool, and may not scale to large
  node counts due to file system issues.  This option is used by the
  launcher to set the GEOPM_TRACE environment variable.  The command
  line option will override any value currently set in the
  environment.  See the ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-trace-signals` signals:
  Used to insert additional columns into the trace beyond the default
  columns and the columns added by the Agent.  This option has no
  effect unless tracing is enabled with `--geopm-trace`.  The value
  must be formatted as a comma-separated list of valid signal names.
  When not specified all custom signals added to the trace will be
  sampled and aggregated for the entire node unless the domain is
  specified by appending "@domain_type" to the signal name.  For
  example, the following will add total DRAM energy and power as
  columns in the trace:

  `--geopm-trace-signals=ENERGY_DRAM,POWER_DRAM`

  The signals available and their descriptions are documented in the
  **PlatformIO(3)** man page.  "TIME", "REGION_HASH", "REGION_HINT",
  "REGION_PROGRESS", "REGION_RUNTIME", "ENERGY_PACKAGE",
  "POWER_PACKAGE", and "FREQUENCY" are included in the trace by
  default.  A domain other than board can be specified by appending
  the signal name with an "@" character and then specifying one of the
  domains, e.g:

  `--geopm-trace-signals=POWER_PACKAGE@package,ENERGY_PACKAGE@package`

  will trace the package power and energy for each package on the
  system.  The **geopmread(1)** executable enables discovery of
  signals and domains available on your system.  The signal names and
  domain names given for this parameter are specified as in the
  **geopmread(1)** command line interface.  This option is used by the
  launcher to set the GEOPM_TRACE_SIGNALS environment variable.  The
  command line option will override any value currently set in the
  environment.  See the ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-profile` name:
  The name of the profile which is printed in the report and trace
  files.  This name can be used to index the data in post-processing.
  For example, when running a sweep of experiments with multiple power
  caps, the profile could contain the power setting for one run.  The
  default profile name is the name of the compute application
  executable.  This option is used by the launcher to set the
  GEOPM_PROFILE environment variable.  The command line option will
  override any value currently set in the environment.  See the
  ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-ctl` _process_|_pthread_|_application_:
  Use GEOPM runtime and launch GEOPM with one of three methods:
  _process_, _pthread_ or _application_.  The _process_ method
  allocates one extra MPI process per node for the GEOPM controller,
  and this is the default method if the `--geopm-ctl` option is not
  provided.  The _pthread_ method spawns a thread from one MPI process
  per node to run the GEOPM controller.  The _application_ method
  launches the **geopmctl(1)** application in the background which
  connects to the primary compute application.  The _process_ method
  can be used in the widest variety of cases, but some systems require
  that each MPI process be assigned the same number of CPUs which may
  waste resources by assigning more than one CPU to the GEOPM
  controller process.  The _pthread_ option requires support for
  MPI_THREAD_MULTIPLE, which is not enabled at many sites; in
  addition, on some systems affinitizing one extra CPU to the MPI
  process containing the controller thread may be not be possible,
  resulting in running the GEOPM controller on the same CPU as the
  main compute application.  The _application_ method of launch is not
  compatible with `aprun`; with `srun`, the call must be made inside
  of an existing allocation made with salloc or sbatch and the command
  must request all of the compute nodes assigned to the allocation.
  This option is used by the launcher to set the GEOPM_CTL environment
  variable.  The command line option will override any value currently
  set in the environment.  See the ENVIRONMENT section of
  **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-agent` agent:
  Specify the Agent type.  The Agent defines the control algorithm
  used by the GEOPM runtime.  Available agents are: "monitor" (default
  if option not specified; enables profiling features only),
  "power_balancer" (optimizes runtime under a power cap),
  "power_governor" (enforces a uniform power cap), and
  "energy_efficient" (saves energy).  See **geopm_agent_monitor(7)**,
  **geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
  **geopm_agent_power_governor(7)**, and
  **geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7)** for descriptions of each agent.
  For more details on the responsibilities of the Agent, see
  **geopm::Agent(3)**.  This option is used by the launcher to set the
  GEOPM_AGENT environment variable.  The command line option will
  override any value currently set in the environment.  See the
  ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-policy` policy:
  GEOPM policy JSON file used to configure the Agent plugin.  If the
  policy is provided through this file, it will only be read once and
  cannot be changed dynamically.  In this mode, samples will not be
  provided to the resource manager.  To provide a shared memory region
  name, `--geopm-endpoint` should be used instead; `--geopm-policy`
  and `--geopm-endpoint` cannot be set simultaneously.  See
  **geopmagent(1)** and **geopm_agent_c(3)** for more information
  about how to create this input file.  This option is used by the
  launcher to set the GEOPM_POLICY environment variable.  The command
  line option will override any value currently set in the
  environment.  See the ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-shmkey` key:
  Specify a special prefix to be used with all of the shared memory
  keys generated by the GEOPM runtime.  This is useful for avoiding
  collisions with keys that were not properly cleaned up.  The default
  key prefix is "geopm-shm".  A shared memory key must have no
  occurrences of the '/' character.  The base key is used as the
  prefix for each shared memory region used by the runtime.  These
  keys should be cleaned up by the exception handler in case of an
  error or OS signal other than SIGKILL.  If the application is killed
  with SIGKILL or the keys are left behind for any other reason, a
  simple command to clean up after an aborted job is:

    `$ test -n "$GEOPM_SHMKEY" && rm -f /dev/shm${GEOPM_SHMKEY}* || rm -f /dev/shm/geopm-shm*`

  This option is used by the launcher to set the GEOPM_SHMKEY
  environment variable.  The command line option will override any
  value currently set in the environment.  See the ENVIRONMENT section
  of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-timeout` sec:
  Time in seconds that the application should wait for the GEOPM
  controller to connect over shared memory.  The default value is 30
  seconds.  This option is used by the launcher to set the
  GEOPM_TIMEOUT environment variable.  The command line option will
  override any value currently set in the environment.  See the
  ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-plugin-path` path:
  The search path for GEOPM plugins. It is a colon-separated list of
  directories used by GEOPM to search for shared objects which contain
  GEOPM plugins.  In order to be available to the GEOPM runtime,
  plugins should register themselves with the appropriate factory.
  See **geopm::PluginFactory(3)** for information about the GEOPM
  plugin interface.  A zero-length directory name indicates the
  current working directory; this can be specified by a leading or
  trailing colon, or two adjacent colons.  The default search location
  is always loaded first and is determined at library configuration
  time and by way of the 'pkglib' variable (typically
  /usr/lib64/geopm/).  This option is used by the launcher to set the
  GEOPM_PLUGIN_PATH environment variable.  The command line option
  will override any value currently set in the environment.  See the
  ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-debug-attach` rank:
  Enables a serial debugger such as gdb to attach to a job when the
  GEOPM PMPI wrappers are enabled.  If set to a numerical value, the
  associated rank will wait in MPI_Init() until a debugger is attached
  and the local variable "cont" is set to a non-zero value.  If set,
  but not to a numerical value then all ranks will wait.  The runtime
  will print a message explaining the hostname and process ID that the
  debugger should attach to.  This option is used by the launcher to
  set the GEOPM_DEBUG_ATTACH environment variable.  The command line
  option will override any value currently set in the environment.
  See the ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-region-barrier`:
  Enables a node local MPI_Barrier() at time of calling
  `geopm_region_enter`() or `geopm_region_exit`() for all application
  ranks that share a node.  Since the GEOPM controller only considers
  a region to be entered when all ranks on a node have entered the
  region, enabling this feature forces control throughout all of the
  time every rank spends in a region.  This feature is primarily used
  for debugging purposes.  WARNING: If all regions marked in the
  application are not entered synchronously by all ranks on a node
  then enabling this feature will cause a deadlock and the application
  will hang.  This option is used by the launcher to set the
  GEOPM_REGION_BARRIER environment variable.  The command line option
  will override any value currently set in the environment.  See the
  ENVIRONMENT section of **geopm(7)**.

* `--geopm-preload`:
  Use LD_PRELOAD to link libgeopm.so at runtime.  This can be used to
  enable the GEOPM runtime when an application has not been compiled
  against libgeopm.so.

* `--geopm-hyperthreads-disable`:
  Prevent the launcher from trying to use hyperthreads for pinning
  purposes when attempting to satisfy the MPI ranks / OMP threads
  configuration specified.  This is done for both the controller and
  the application.  An error is raised if the launcher cannot satisfy
  the current request without hyperthreads.

* `--geopm-ctl-disable`:
  Used to allow passing the command through to the underlying launcher.
  By default, `geopmlaunch` will launch the GEOPM runtime in process mode.
  When this option is specified, the GEOPM runtime will not be launched.

## EXAMPLES
Use geopmlaunch to queue a job using geopmbench on a SLURM managed system
requesting two nodes using 32 application MPI process each with four threads:

    geopmlaunch srun -N 2 -n 32 -c 4 \
                     --geopm-ctl=process \
                     --geopm-report=tutorial6.report \
                     -- ./geopmbench tutorial6_config.json

Use geopmlaunch to launch the miniFE executable with the same configuration,
but on an ALPS managed system:

    geopmlaunch aprun -N 2 -n 64 --cpus-per-pe 4 \
                      --geopm-ctl process \
                      --geopm-report miniFE.report \
                      -- ./miniFE.x -nx 256 -ny 256 -nz 256

## ENVIRONMENT
Every command line option to the launcher can also be specified as an
environment variable if desired (with the exception of `--geopm-ctl`).
For example, instead of specifying `--geopm-region-barrier` one can
instead set in the environment `GEOPM_REGION_BARRIER=true` prior to
invoking the launcher script.  The environment variables are named the
same as the command line option but have the hyphens replaced with
underscores, and are all uppercase.  The command line options take
precedence over the environment variables.

The usage of `--geopm-ctl` here is slightly different than how the
controller handles the `GEOPM_CTL` environment variable.  In the
case of the launcher, one can specify _process_, _pthread_, or
_application_ to the command line argument.  In the case of
`GEOPM_CTL` one can ONLY specify `process` or `pthread`, as
launching the controller as a separate application is handled through
the `geopmctl` binary.

The `KMP_WARNINGS` environment variable is set to 'FALSE', thus
disabling the Intel OpenMP warnings.  This avoids warnings emitted
because the launcher configures the `OMP_PROC_BIND` environment
variable to support applications compiled with a non-Intel
implementation of OpenMP.

## COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

## SEE ALSO
**geopm(7)**,
**geopmpy(7)**,
**geopm_agent_energy_efficient(7)**,
**geopm_agent_monitor(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_balancer(7)**,
**geopm_agent_power_governor(7)**,
**geopm_error(3)**,
**geopmctl(1)**
