.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"       the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"       distribution.
.\"
.\"     * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH "GEOPM_ERROR" 3 "2015-10-16" "Intel Corporation" "GEOPM" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
geopm_error \- geopm error handling
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <geopm_error.h>
.sp
.B Link with -lgeopm (MPI) or -lgeopmpolicy (non-MPI)
.sp
.BI "void geopm_error_message(int " "err" ,
.BI "                         char *" "msg" ,
.BI "                         size_t " "size" );
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
All
.BR geopm (3)
C APIs which can have an error condition occur during runtime return an error
number.  This is the way
.BR geopm (3)
handles errors, and almost all of the interfaces behave this way.  This man
page describes how to interpret these returned error codes.  A returned error
number of zero by a geopm API indicates success.  If the error number returned
by a geopm API is positive then this indicates a generic system error, and if
the error number is negative this indicates a
.BR geopm (3)
specific error has occurred.  Any non-zero error number can be converted into
a descriptive string with the
.BR geopm_error_message ()
function.  The GEOPM specific error numbers are enumerated in the
.I geopm_error.h
header file and they are described below.  The system error numbers are
documented in the
.BR errno (3)
man page.
.PP
.SH "ERRORS NUMBERS"
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_RUNTIME = -1
Runtime error
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_LOGIC = -2
Logic error
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_INVALID = -3
Invalid argument
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_POLICY_NULL = -4
The geopm_policy_c pointer is NULL, use geopm_policy_create()
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_FILE_PARSE = -5
Unable to parse input file
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_LEVEL_RANGE = -6
Control hierarchy level is out of range
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_CTL_COMM = -7
Communication error in control hierarchy
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_SAMPLE_INCOMPLETE = -8
All children have not sent all samples
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_POLICY_UNKNOWN = -9
No policy has been set
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED = -10
Feature not yet implemented
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_NOT_TESTED = -11
Feature not yet tested
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_PLATFORM_UNSUPPORTED = -12
Current platform not supported or unrecognized
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_MSR_OPEN = -13
Could not open MSR device
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_MSR_READ = -14
Could not read from MSR device
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_MSR_WRITE = -15
Could not write to MSR device
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_OPENMP_UNSUPPORTED = -16
Not compiled with support for OpenMP
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_PROF_NULL = -17
The geopm_prof_c pointer is NULL, use geopm_prof_create()
.TP
.B GEOPM_ERROR_DECIDER_UNSUPPORTED = -18
Specified decider not supported or unrecognized
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR geopm (3),
.BR geopm_ctl_c (3),
.BR geopm_omp (3),
.BR geopm_policy_c (3),
.BR geopm_prof_c (3),
.BR geopm_version (3),
.BR geopmctl (3),
.BR geopmkey (3),
.BR geopmpolicy (3),
.BR errno (3)
