.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"       the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"       distribution.
.\"
.\"     * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH "GEOPMCTL" 3 "2015-08-31" "Intel Corporation" "GEOPMCTL" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
geopmctl \- geopm runtime mpi application
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.BR "geopmctl" " [" "\-\-version" "] [" "\-\-help" "] [" "\-c" " policy_config]"
.br
.BR "        " " [" "\-k" " policy_key] [" "\-s" " sample_key] [" "\-r" " report]"
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
The geopmctl application runs concurrently with a computational MPI
application to manage power settings on compute nodes allocated to the
computation MPI application.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version of geopm to standard output, then exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print brief summary of the command line usage information, then exit.
.TP
.BR "\-c" " config_file"
Policy configuration file which may be created with the
.BR geopm_policy_c (3)
interface or the
.BR geopmpolicy (3)
application.  If
.B "\-c"
is specified then
.B "\-k"
should not be specified.  If both are specified
.B "\-k"
is ignored and a warning is printed.
.TP
.BR "\-k" " control_key"
POSIX shared memory key which determines policy for geopmctl.  See
.BR geopm_policy_c (3)
for information on how to create and modify a shared memory region for
control.
.TP
.BR "\-s" " sample_key"
POSIX shared memory key referencing memory written to by the compute
application to provide the geopmctl application with performance profile
information.  See
.BR geopm_ctl_c (3)
for information on how to create the sample shared memory region for
profile feedback.
.TP
.BR "\-r" " report"
Output text file that will hold the human readable report when program
terminates.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR geopm (3),
.BR geopm_ctl_c (3),
.BR geopm_policy_c (3),
.BR geopm_prof_c (3),
.BR geopm_error_e (3),
.BR geopm_version (3),
.BR geopmkey (3),
.BR geopmpolicy (3)
