.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"       the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"       distribution.
.\"
.\"     * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH "GEOPM_OMP" 3 "2015-10-12" "Intel Corporation" "GEOPM" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
geopm_omp.h \- geopm interface for OpenMP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <geopm_omp.h>
.sp
.B Link with -lgeopm (MPI) or -lgeopmpolicy (non-MPI)
.sp
.BI "int geopm_no_omp_cpu(int " "num_cpu" ", cpu_set_t *" "no_omp");
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.I geopm_omp.h
header defines geopm interfaces for interacting with the OpenMP runtime
environment.  This set of interfaces will grow in the future.
.PP
.BR geopm_no_omp_cpu ()
sets the
.BR CPU_SET (3)
given by
.I no_omp
such that it includes all CPUs not used in an OpenMP parallel region.  This
cpu mask can be used with
.BR pthread_attr_setaffinity_np (3)
to modify the attributes passed to
.BR geopm_ctl_pthread ()
so that the pthread created is affinitized to CPUs that do not have an OpenMP
thread affinity.  The mask generated when OpenMP threads are not statically
affinitized is unreliable.  The
.I no_omp
mask is zeroed and an error code is returned when all online CPUs have an
OpenMP thread affinity.  The
.I num_cpu
parameter specifies size of the CPU_SET in terms of number of CPUs.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR geopm (3),
.BR geopmctl (3),
.BR geopmkey (3),
.BR geopmpolicy (3),
.BR geopm_ctl_c (3),
.BR geopm_error (3),
.BR geopm_omp (3),
.BR geopm_policy_c (3),
.BR geopm_prof_c (3),
.BR geopm_version (3),
.BR CPU_SET (3),
.BR pthread_setaffinity_np (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setaffinity_np (3)
