.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"       the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"       distribution.
.\"
.\"     * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH "GEOPM" 3 "2015-10-12" "Intel Corporation" "GEOPM" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
geopm \- global energy optimization power management
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Global Energy Optimization Power Management is a hierarchical control system
for optimizing power policy in a power-constrained MPI job to increase
performance.  It is designed to coordinate power policy and performance across
all of the compute nodes hosting one MPI job on a portion of a distributed
computing system.  The root of the control hierarchy tree can communicate
through shared memory with the system resource management daemon to extend the
hierarchy above the individual MPI job level and enable management of system
power resources for multiple MPI jobs and multiple users by the system
resource manager.  The geopm package provides the libgeopm library the
libgeopmpolicy library and the geopmctl application.  The libgeopm library can
be called within MPI applications to enable application feedback for informing
the control decisions.  If modification of the target application is not
desired then the geopmctl application can be run concurrently with the target
application.  In this case, target application feedback is inferred by
querying the hardware through Model Specific Registers (MSRs).  With either
method (libgeopm or geopmctl), the control hierarchy tree writes processor
power policy through MSRs to enact policy decisions.  The libgeopmpolicy
library is used by a resource manager to set energy policy control parameters
for MPI jobs.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR geopmctl (3),
.BR geopmkey (3),
.BR geopmpolicy (3),
.BR geopm_ctl_c (3),
.BR geopm_policy_c (3),
.BR geopm_prof_c (3),
.BR geopm_version (3),
.BR geopm_error (3)
