.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"       the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"       distribution.
.\"
.\"     * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY LOG OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH "GEOPM_CTL_C" 3 "2015-09-15" "Intel Corporation" "GEOPM" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
geopm_ctl_c \- geopm power controller structure
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <geopm.h>
.sp
.B Link with -lgeopm
.sp
.BI "int geopm_ctl_create(const char *" "policy_config"  ,
.BI "                     const char *" "policy_key" ,
.BI "                     struct geopm_prof_c *" "sample_prof" ,
.BI "                     MPI_Comm " "comm" ,
.BI "                     struct geopm_ctl_c **" "ctl" );
.sp
.BI "int geopm_ctl_destroy(struct geopm_ctl_c *" "ctl" );
.sp
.BI "int geopm_ctl_step(struct geopm_ctl_c *" "ctl" );
.sp
.BI "int geopm_ctl_run(struct geopm_ctl_c *" "ctl" );
.sp
.BI "int geopm_ctl_pthread(struct geopm_ctl_c *" "ctl" ,
.BI "                      const pthread_attr_t *" "attr" ,
.BI "                      pthread_t *" "thread" );
.sp
.BI "int geopm_ctl_spawn(struct geopm_ctl_c *" "ctl" );
.sp
.B "HELPER FUNCTIONS:"
.br
.BI "int geopm_no_omp_cpu(int " "num_cpu" ", cpu_set_t *" "no_omp" );
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The geopm_ctl_c structure is used to lauch or step the global energy
optimization power management algorithm.  There are several ways to enable
control: explicit stepping of the control algorithm by the application under
control, running the control algorithm as a distinct processes from the
application under control, running the control algorithm as a separate pthread
owned by the application process under control, or the application under
control can spawn a new MPI communicator that runs the control algorithm in
conjunction with its own distinct MPI_COMM_WORLD.  Each of these methods has
different requirements and trade offs.
.PP
.BR geopm_ctl_create ()
creates a geopm_ctl_c object which is an opaque structure that holds the
state used for control.  An error will occur and an error code returned if
both
.I policy_config
and
.I policy_key
are specified or both are unspecified.  The number of levels of the hierarchy
tree is determined by the
.I num_level
parameter.  If zero is specified for the number of levels an optimal value
will be guessed based on the size of the MPI communicator passed by the
.I comm
parameter.  The power management is implemented as a hierarchical control
system which is based on a balanced tree where the number of children that a
node in the tree has is a function of its depth in the tree.  The output of
.BR MPI_Dims_create ()
will be used to help determine the structure of the tree.  The power
management policy is determined in one of two ways: statically with a
configuration file or dynamically controlled by the resource manager through
shared memory.  See the
.BR geopm_policy_c (3)
man page for more details about how to create the configuration file or shared
memory region.  The
.I policy_config
input parameter is a path to a policy configuration file.  The
.I policy_key
parameter is the POSIX shared memory key referencing a shared memory region on
the root node of the communicator under control which is passed as the
.IR comm .
Note that either
.I policy_config
or
.I policy_key
must be NULL, and the other must be specified.  An error will occur and an
error code returned if neither or both of these parameters are passed as
NULL.   The control algorithm relies on feedback about the application
profile.  If the control is being executed in the application process then the
.I sample_prof
parameter provides a handle to obtain the profile information.  See
.BR geopm_prof_c (3)
for information on how to create this structure.  In this case the
.I sample_key
should be passed as NULL.  If the control process is distinct from the
process providing profile information then the
.I sample_key
references a POSIX shared memory region that the profiling process writes to.
In this case the
.I sample_prof
should be passes as NULL.  Note that either
.I sample_prof
or
.I sample_key
must be NULL, and the other must be specified.  An error will occur and an
error code returned if neither or both of these parameters are passed as NULL.
The result of calling this function is to produce the controller structure,
.I ctl
which is used to execute the control algorithm with one of the other
functions described in this man page.
.PP
.BR geopm_ctl_destroy ()
destroys all resources associated with the
.I ctl
structure which allocated by a previous call to
.BR geopm_ctl_create ().
.PP
.BR geopm_ctl_step ()
is called to execute one step in the hierarchical control algorithm by the
application process.  The call is a blocking call for those processes that are
the lowest MPI rank on the compute node and a no-op for those that are not.  A
call to this function sends samples up the tree, then policies down the
tree, and finally if the policy has been changed for the node of the calling
process then the policy is enforced by writing MSR values.  When this function
is being called by the application under control the profile feedback is
acquired directly.  In this case the
.I ctl
structure must have been created with the
.I sample_prof
specified, otherwise an error occurs and an error code is returned.
.PP
.BR geopm_ctl_run ()
steps the control algorithm continuously until the kill signal is received.
Since this is a blocking call that never returns, it is intended that
profiling information is provided through POSIX shared memory.  When used in
this way the
.I ctl
structure must have been created with the
.I sample_key
specified.
.PP
.BR geopm_ctl_pthread ()
creates a POSIX thread running the control algorithm continuously until the
thread is killed.  This is intended to be called by the application under
control and so the profile feedback is acquired directly.  In this case the
.I ctl
structure must have been created with
.I sample_prof
specified.  With this method of launch the supporting MPI implementation must
be enabled for MPI_THREAD_MULITPLE using MPI_Init_thread().
.PP
.BR geopm_ctl_spawn ()
use MPI_Comm_spawn() to spawn a new communicator with one process per compute
node.  The geopmctl application will be spawned on this communicator which
will rely on profile information read from POSIX shared memory.  For this
reason the
.I ctl
structure must have been created with the
.I sample_key
specified, otherwise an error occurs and an error code is returned.
.sp
.B "HELPER FUNCTIONS:"
.br
.PP
.BR geopm_no_omp_cpu
sets the
.BR CPU_SET (3)
given by
.I no_omp
such that it includes all CPUs not used in an OpenMP parallel region.  This
cpu mask can be used with
.BR pthread_attr_setaffinity_np (3)
to modify the attriutes passed to
.BR geopm_ctl_pthread ()
so that the pthread created is affinitized to CPUs that do not have an OpenMP
thread affinity.  The mask generated when OpenMP threads are not statically
affinitized is unreliable.  The
.I no_omp
mask is zeroed and an error code is returned when all online CPUs have an
OpenMP thread affinity.  The
.I num_cpu
parameter specifies size of the CPU_SET in terms of number of CPUs.
.SH "ERRORS"
All functions described on this man page return an error code.  See
.BR geopm_error_e (3)
for a full description of the error numbers and how to convert them to
strings.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR geopm (3),
.BR geopm_policy_c (3),
.BR geopm_prof_c (3),
.BR geopm_error_e (3),
.BR geopm_version (3),
.BR geopmctl (3),
.BR geopmkey (3),
.BR geopmpolicy (3)
