CONTRIBUTING
============
This file describes how to contribute to the geopm project.  Any
feedback is appreciated.

BUG REPORT
==========
Please file an issue on our github site for any bug observed:

    https://github.com/geopm/geopm/issues

If possible, please reproduce issue with the --enable-debug option
passed to configure at build time and then report any error messages
emitted by geopm at run time.  Providing code that reproduces the
issue is nice to have.

CHANGE REQUEST
==============
There are two ways to submit a change request.  Opening a pull request
on github from a fork of geopm is preferred for most cases.  It is
also acceptable to submit a change request directly to gerrithub, and
this is the workflow for maintainers and active developers.

Github pull request
-------------------
All pull requests to the geopm/geopm repository on github will
automatically be submitted to travis-ci for unit testing.  The link
for creating a pull request is here:

    https://github.com/geopm/geopm/pulls

and the link for the unit testing in travis-ci is here:

    https://travis-ci.org/geopm/geopm

If the tests pass in travis-ci then the pull request will be brought
into gerrithub for review by the geopm maintainers.  Including a
Change-id: and Signed-off-by: line in the commit message is
appreciated, but not required (they will be added for you).  The link
for the gerrithub reviews is here:

    https://review.gerrithub.io/#/q/project:geopm/geopm

We encourage users and developers of the geopm software to participate
in our code review process through gerrithub.  When the request passes
review the change will be integrated into the geopm development branch
on github through a gerrit submission.

Gerrithub review request
------------------------
It is also possible to submit a change request directly to gerrithub.
This is the primary workflow of active development.  When using this
method Please include a Change-id: and Signed-off-by: line in the
commit message.  The gerrit server information can be found here:

    https://review.gerrithub.io/#/admin/projects/geopm/geopm

please refer to the gerrit documentation on how to create review
request.

CODING STYLE
============
Code formatting can be corrected to conform to the standard using
astyle with the following options:

    astyle --style=linux --indent=spaces=4 -y -S -C -N

TEST INSTRUCTIONS
=================
To test the library once it has been built run

    make check

Please run these tests before submitting a change request.  Set the
MPIEXEC environment variable as is appropriate for your system to
launch an MPI application.  The default if variable not set is
"mpiexec".

COVERAGE INSTRUCTIONS
=====================
To generate a coverage report, first be sure that you have installed
the lcov package available here:

    http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php

The geopm build must be configured with the "--enable-coverage" option.  Then
simply run

    make coverage

which run tests and produce a coverage report in

    coverage/index.html

Note that all tests must pass in order to generate a coverage report.


