.. role:: raw-html-m2r(raw)
   :format: html


geopm_time(3) -- helper methods for time
========================================


Synopsis
--------

#include `<geopm_time.h> <https://github.com/geopm/geopm/blob/dev/libgeopmd/include/geopm_time.h>`_

Link with ``-lgeopm`` **(MPI)** or ``-lgeopm`` **(non-MPI)**

C interfaces:

.. code-block:: c

       static inline int geopm_time_string(int buf_size,
                                           char *buf);

       static inline int geopm_time(struct geopm_time_s *time);

       static inline int geopm_time_real(struct geopm_time_s *time);

       static inline double geopm_time_diff(const struct geopm_time_s *begin,
                                            const struct geopm_time_s *end);

       static inline bool geopm_time_comp(const struct geopm_time_s *aa,
                                          const struct geopm_time_s *bb);

       static inline void geopm_time_add(const struct geopm_time_s *begin,
                                         double elapsed,
                                         struct geopm_time_s *end);

       static inline double geopm_time_since(const struct geopm_time_s *begin);

       int geopm_time_zero(struct geopm_time_s *zero_time);

       static inline int geopm_time_to_string(const struct geopm_time_s *time, int buf_size, char *buf);

       int geopm_time_real_to_iso_string(const struct geopm_time_s *time, int buf_size, char *buf);

       static inline int geopm_time_string(int buf_size, char *buf);

       static inline double geopm_time_since(const struct geopm_time_s *begin);


C++ interfaces:

.. code-block:: c++

       struct geopm_time_s geopm::time_curr(void);

       struct geopm_time_s geopm::time_curr_real(void);

       std::string geopm::time_curr_string(void);

       struct geopm_time_s geopm::time_zero(void);

       void geopm::time_zero_reset(const geopm_time_s &zero);


Description
-----------

The `geopm_time.h <https://github.com/geopm/geopm/blob/dev/libgeopmd/include/geopm_time.h>`_
header defines GEOPM interfaces for measuring time in seconds relative to a
fixed arbitrary reference point. The ``geopm_time_s`` structure is used to hold
time values.

The default clock used is Linux ``CLOCK_MONTONIC_RAW``.  In general, these
interfaces use this as the time reference.  This clock is the most precise for
calculating time differences.

There are some times when absolute time accuracy is preferred over time
difference accuracy. For these cases, GEOPM provides time functions that use
``CLOCK_REALTIME`` as the reference time.  There is a C accessor for real time:
``geopm_time_real()``, and there is also a C++ accessor:
``geopm::time_curr_real()``.  Only ``geopm_time_s`` values created with these
accessors may be passed to ``geopm_time_to_iso_string()`` which provides a
nano-second precision absolute date string.

The last time reference is useful when comparing against the values returned by
PlatformIO for the ``TIME`` signal.  The reference time (0.0) for this signal is
a ``CLOCK_MONOTONIC_RAW`` time value that can be accessed in C with
``geopm_time_zero()`` and in C++ with ``geopm::time_zero()``.  There is also a
way to reset this reference with ``geopm_time_zero_reset()`` and
``geopm:time_zero_reset()`` by providing a ``CLOCK_MONOTONIC_RAW`` time value.


``geopm_time_string()``
  Fills *buf* with the current date and time as a string.  The
  string will be null-terminated and truncated to *buf_size*, which
  must be at least 26 characters as required by `asctime_r(3) <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/asctime_r.3.html>`_.

``geopm_time()``
  Sets *time* to the current time using Linux CLOCK_MONOTONIC_RAW clock. This
  can be used with geopm_time_to_string() to get a an approximate date string.

``geopm_time_real()``
  Sets *time* to the current time using the Linux CLOCK_REALTIME clock.
  This can be used with geopm_time_real_to_iso_string() for an accurate ISO
  8601 standard date string representation.

``geopm_time_diff()``
  Returns the difference in seconds between *begin* and *end*.

``geopm_time_comp()``
  Return true if *aa* is less than *bb*.

``geopm_time_add()``
  Sets *end* to *elapsed* seconds after *begin*.

``geopm_time_since()``
  Returns the number of seconds elapsed between the current time and *begin*.

``geopm_time_zero()``
  Return the time since the first call to this interface or
  the ``geopm::time_zero()`` interface by the calling process.
  See also: ``geopm::time_zero_reset()``.

``geopm_time_to_string()``
  Convert a CLOCK_MONOTONIC_RAW time representation returned by ``geopm_time()``
  or ``geopm::time_curr()`` into an approximate date string.

``geopm_time_real_to_iso_string()``
  Convert a CLOCK_REALTIME time representation returned by ``geopm_time_real()``
  or ``geopm::time_curr_real()`` into an ISO 8601 standard date string with
  nanosecond resolution.

``geopm_time_string()``
  Provide a date string for the current time in the format returned by
  geopm_time_to_string().

``geopm::time_zero()``
  Return the time since the first call to this interface or the
  ``geopm_time_zero()`` interface by the calling process.
  See also: ``geopm::time_zero_reset()``.

``geopm::time_curr()``
  Returns the current time using Linux CLOCK_MONOTONIC_RAW clock. This can be
  used with geopm_time_to_string() to get a an approximate date string.

``geopm::time_curr_real()``
  Returns the current time using the Linux CLOCK_REALTIME clock.  This can be
  used with geopm_time_real_to_iso_string() for an accurate ISO 8601 standard
  date string representation.

``geopm::time_curr_string()``
  Returns an accurate ISO 8601 standard date string representation of
  the current time using Linux CLOCK_REALTIME clock..

``geopm::time_zero_reset()``
  Override the reference time for the ``geopm_time_zero()`` and
  ``geopm::time_zero()`` with the value *zero*.


Structure Type
--------------

This structure is part of the global **C** namespace.
This structure is used to abstract the ``timespec`` on Linux from other representations of time.

The field ``struct timespec t`` is a **POSIX.1b** structure for a time value.
This is like a ``struct timeval`` but has *nanoseconds* instead of *microseconds*.

.. code-block:: c

       struct geopm_time_s {
           struct timespec t;
       };


See Also
--------

:doc:`geopm(7) <geopm.7>`\ ,
`asctime_r(3) <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/asctime_r.3.html>`_
